




                          JENNIFER EIGHT


                            Written by

                          Bruce Robinson






                                                  June 1991




     1:  INT.  COMMUNITY HALL.   DAY.

     The Church of St. Peter Los Angeles. "WHOEVER YOU SEE HERE -
     WHATEVER YOU HEAR HERE - STAYS HERE." That's a notice on a
     wall. Here's another notice "NO SMOKING." Everyone is smok-
     ing. This is an AA meeting. There's a lot of Faces to look
     at. I don't know when we'll get to the one that's talking,
     but when we do it's like this. Eyes like glue. 50 years old
     with a face the color of a snuff-users hanky. He says this:

                                 BENNY
                 .. after my third recovery my wife made
                 me swear I'd never bring another bottle
                 into the house.  And I never did. I bur-
                 ied it under the lawn.  Cut out a turf &
                 stood it upright with a piece of tin-
                 foil instead of a cork. So here we are
                 out in the yard, and she's happy because
                 I'm getting healthy in a pair of swim-
                 ing shorts & no way near no booze. She
                 decides to prune the roses. Meanwhile,
                 I'm laying there with a straw stuck in-
                 to the fucken lawn doing a quart of red ..

     Curious thing about drunks. Their disease often amuses them.

                 That's how crazy I was - I was sick for
                 half a life till I finally found my san-
                 ity again in these rooms. Don't take that
                 drink - And for the one or two new faces
                 I see here, I say this: just do it by the
                 day. You gotta do it by the day - Don't
                 take that drink. And keep coming to these
                 meetings. Because here is where it works ..

                                 CHAIR
                 Thank you, Benny .. We have a few more
                 minutes .. Anyone else like to share? ..

     Ash into an ashtray and now a face. He's around 40 years old.
     Intense eyes & dark hair. Probably good looking when the ang-
     le's right. But this is a bad angle. His name is JOHN BERLIN.

                                 BERLIN
                 My name's John .. and I'm an alcoholic ..

                                 ALL
                 Hi, John.

                                 BERLIN
                 I didn't intend to speak today.  Matter of
                 fact, I wasn't gonna come to the meeting ..
                 But I wanna say a couple of things I hope
                 may be of use, particularly as Benny says,
                 to the new faces here. I first came into
                 this fellowship ten months ago. I came to
                 a meeting I was convinced was gonna be my
                 last - how could a buncha drunks help me? -
                 Then someone got up, I think it was Micky,
                 and described himself as "the shit around
                 which the universe revolved." I don't know
                 if that was original to him - it doesn't
                 matter, it was the first time I'd heard it,
                 and I still can't think of a better way to
                 describe how I felt - We all have our own
                 place in the darkness, and I was in such a
                 mess I could hardly fucken see - I'd lost
                 someone very dear to me - she hadn't died -
                 I had - I don't know whether she left coza
                 the drinking, or whether I drank coz I knew
                 she was gonna leave - either way, the booze
                 won - I replaced her with alcohol & anger -
                 I was angry with her, myself, everyone and
                 everything - Where I was I wanted to be
                 someplace else - any place but here - any
                 moment but now - But here I am, and it is
                 now, and there's a big change about to hap-
                 pen in my life - and I'm going for it coz
                 this time I know I'm not running away - I'm
                 actually two miles into a 600 mile journey,
                 and I feel good about myself going there -
                 So I stopped off to share that with you -
                 and to thank everyone of you, and everyone
                 in this fellowship for letting me walk out
                 of here, free ..

     2:  EXT.  OAKLAND BRIDGE.  SAN FRANCISCO BAY.  DUSK.

     High above the Golden Gate. Too high for specifics. But there
     is something down there of interest to the Camera. Descending
     with the Music it seems to isolate a particular car. Too many
     and too distant to know which it is. But the Camera is follow-
     ing and already a mile up the 101 Interstate travelling north.

     Maybe via a dissolve. And maybe not. But red and white either
     way as the headlights are coming on. The Camera is closing on
     the highway. And a car has definitely been selected. There is
     nothing much of interest about it. It's a blue Mercedes sedan.

     Mussorgsky will choreograph the pace of these cuts. The first
     puts the frame directly in front of the car. In a few moments
     its brights snap up. And Titles continue in a dazzle of light.

     3:  INT.  MERCEDES SEDAN.  101.  DUSK.

     Nobody in the car except BERLIN. And a lot of cigarette smoke.
     Just time to wedge in a P.O.V. There's an intersection coming
     up. He hits the indicators and crosses lanes winding his wind-
     ow down. Takes a last hit at his cigarette and exits the butt.

     4:  EXT.  FREEWAY INTERSECTION.  DUSK.

     An instant of red as the cigarette shatters up the highway. A
     heavy sky of red and black cloud. The Mercedes turns off head-
     ing east. This time the Camera doesn't follow. Remains static
     over the intersection until the tail lights finally disappear.

     5:  INT.  LIVING ROOM.  HOUSE.  DAWN.

     Bare wooden boards and the sound of singing birds. This house
     hasn't been lived in for years. No furniture other than a new
     mattress in the middle of the floor. Still in polythene wraps.

     BERLIN just about awake on top of it. Ten seconds of disorien-
     tation while he puts this together. A stone fireplace. Stairs
     leading to what's got to be a tiny room above. With enough ef-
     fort this place could be charming. But right now it's a wreck.

     6:  INT.  KITCHEN.  HOUSE.  DAWN.

     This kitchen was out of date by 1963. A huge china sink and a
     fat fridge. But the cooker works and a battered old kettle is
     already on the gas. T-shirt and instant coffee. BERLIN checks
     cupboards out. Crockery includes a cup and that'll do for now.

     His lips articulate a silent expletive. The gas has just gone
     out. Tries to relight it without success. On hands & knees he
     explores a rubber supply pipe that snakes under the back door.

     7:  EXT.  OPEN END GARAGE AND YARD.  HOUSE.  DAWN.

     In the garage he finds the gas cylinder.  Empty and so is the
     bastard with it. He drags fingers through hair in frustration.
     Looks around at the heaps of crap that need clearing out. The
     view beyond he hardly cares to look at.  But if he does it is
     as follows.  Clouds massing on the horizon. Fields getting re-
     ady for rain.  His nearest neighbor is around 200 yards away.
     His nearest Cow about 50. This house is remote and rural look-
     ing with a veranda out back. But BERLIN has no inclination for
     sight-seeing. As he walks away a dreary female Voice seeps in.

     8:  INT.  LIVING ROOM/KITCHEN.  HOUSE.  DAWN.

     The Voice comes via a police scanner. Most of this dialogue's
     bullshit. Illegally parked autos and a few drunks still about.
     BERLIN sits on the mattress eating a breakfast of chewing gum
     and milk. He unwraps another Juicy Fruit and regrets it. Goes
     round his mouth like a shoe in a washing machine. A reluctant
     decision is taken. Spits gum at the sink as he arrives in the
     kitchen. Starts unloading his leather bag. A flotsam of stuff
     is excavated including a 9mm Beretta and a pack of cigarettes.

     He lights up and takes a cruel hit full of nicotine and guilt.
     Wouldn't need a clairvoyant to realize he's trying to give up.
     Something on the scanner interests him and he wanders back to
     the living room. There's a call going out for "David 72 Sam 3."
     David 72 acknowledges and BERLIN clearly recognizes the voice.

     "We have a 927D/ Springfield Street/ City Dump." But David 72
     is already hired. "I'm outside Emersons/ I wanna be the first
     horrible face of her day." BERLIN exhales through a smile. The
     Controller needs an E.T.A. for the 927? David 72 doesn't know.
     Advises her to roll a couple of cars and "Secure the location."

     9:  EXT.  HILLSIDE.  SPRINGFIELD STREET.  EUREKA.  DAY.

     A Chevrolet zig-zags up a shabby canyon. It's the road to the
     city dump. Its final bend reveals a line of bellowing garbage
     trucks. Everything is backed up. Nothing moves except the car.
     The cause of the hold-up is explained at the top. A Sheriff's
     car blocks the road. A Uniform moves to wave the Chevrolet in.

     10:  EXT.  ENTRANCE/TRACK/INFILL.  CITY DUMP.  EUREKA.  DAY.

     The car parks at a weigh-house and a man in his 50's gets out.
     Looks like he hasn't slept in a while. And got the mood to go
     with it. Sports jacket and cowboy boots. A lot of laugh lines
     around the eyes. But you wouldn't want to get arrested by him.
     And especially not this morning. His name is FREDERICK T ROSS.

                                 TRAVIS
                        You can drive down there, Sir ..

                                 ROSS
                        I'm already walking. Where is it?

     One of those walking with him is a 10-year-old Kid with a Dog.
     TRAVIS looks almost too young to own his struggling moustache.

                                 TRAVIS
                        On the infill. The guy from
                        L.A.'s just gone down there ..

                                 ROSS
                        He has? .. What's he doing here?

                                 TRAVIS
                        He was waiting for you, Sir. Wait-
                        ed a good while. Said he'd go down
                        and take a look. I hope that's O.K.

     The track sinks through a valley of a million discarded tires.

                                 ROSS
                        Damn A, it's O.K. With a bit of
                        luck I'm goin home. What we got?

                                 TRAVIS
                        A derelict.

                                 TRIMBLE
                        They cut his throat ..

     The information comes from freckles and a missing front tooth.

                                 ROSS
                        Who are you?

                                 TRIMBLE
                        Trimble.

     He wears glasses and wields a rusty .22 pump-action Remington.

                                 ROSS
                        Where do you fit in, Trimble?

                                 TRAVIS
                        His father's the manager, Sir.
                        The kid was up there shooting
                        vermin, and he found the body.

                                 TRIMBLE
                        Get ready for it, coz I'm tell-
                        ing ya, you're in for a shock ..

     TRIMBLE speaks with some enthusiasm. ROSS looks back with none.

                        They slit him from "ear to ear."
                        Ya want me to make a statement?

                                 ROSS
                        Not right now. No. Thank you.

     11:  EXT.  WORKING FACE.  INFILL.  GARBAGE DUMP.  DAY.

     A series of terraces have been created as the canyon fills up.
     Black smoke drifts from a distance at will of the wind. Gulls
     and bulldozers. Plus a stinking ten foot cliff of human filth.

     Several cars parked here including the blue Mercedes. Several
     On Lookers behind yellow police tape. ROSS negotiates it look-
     ing pissed off. Looks up and somewhere in the smoke is BERLIN.

                                 ROSS
                        Did you bring it with you?

                                 BERLIN
                        I hope I'm not intruding?

                                 ROSS
                        Be my guest. What you got?

                                 BERLIN
                        Old guy, offed himself with a
                        knife. I can't find the knife.

     And the next thing ROSS is looking at is a death in the trash.
     A massive dozer in the background. Everything else is garbage.

                                 TRIMBLE
                        They cut his throat.

                                 ROSS
                        Would you get outside the tape.
                        And tell your dad to put that
                        fire out ... that ain't legal ...

     Another face here is so familiar ROSS hasn't bothered to ackn-
     owledge it. BLATTIS is a 32 year old local newspaper reporter.
     Little is visible of the body except a blood-stained raincoat.

                                 TRAVIS
                        I wonder what would make
                        him do a thing like that?

                                 ROSS
                        Don't annoy me, Travis.

                                 TRAVIS
                        No, Sir.

     Truck horns wail in the distance. On the horizon it's thunder.

                                 ROSS
                        So where's the knife?

     BERLIN wears surgical gloves. Removes film from a small camera.

                                 BERLIN
                        I dunno .. Guess the dozer
                        musta shifted him? You need
                        some hands up here to look ..

                                 ROSS
                        You heard. Look for the knife.

     Swatting smoke ROSS directs anger at a fat cop called VENABLES.

                        You, too .. Move that ass ..

     BERLIN hands the film to ROSS as he gets into identical gloves.

                        You done the pockets?

                                 BERLIN
                        No, Sir. I haven't started
                        till Monday. I'm a "tourist."

                                 ROSS
                        "Welcome to Eureka."

     By now ROSS is crouched next to the Corpse examining the wound.

                        How long's he been feeling like this?

                                 BERLIN
                        Week or two.  Musta been on the ker-
                        osene.  Stinks like a diesel engine.

                                 BLATTIS
                        Fucken noddle's hanging off ..

                                 ROSS
                        Mr Blattis, of our local news-
                        paper. You sure it's a suicide?

                                 BERLIN
                        Uh huh .. He's well rehearsed ..

                                 BLATTIS
                        What does that mean, Sergeant?

                                 BERLIN
                        Cut your own throat, you're ner-
                        vous about it, tend to hesitate.
                        He's got three trial cuts, lower
                        left side of the neck, before he
                        works up courage for the big one.

     BLATTIS looks vaguely impressed. ROSS begins searching pockets.

                                 BLATTIS
                        You think Popeye would know that?

                                 ROSS
                        I don't think Popeye would be here.

                                 VENABLES (V.O.)
                        Dead dog over here, Sir ...

                                 ROSS
                        Find the knife. And Venab-
                        les, is the coroner called?

                                 VENABLES
                        Yes, Sir .. He's delayed ..

                                 BLATTIS
                        Alright, gentlemen, I'm gonna
                        leave you. I got a couple of
                        questions for the paper, Serg-
                        eant? Mind if I swing by later,
                        wring out a tea-bag with you?

                                 BERLIN
                        My pleasure .. Who's Popeye?

                                 BLATTIS
                        Your predecessor. He did-
                        n't like to get outta bed.
                        Catch you later, Freddy T ..

     Off he fucks under an ailing sky. BERLIN lands a friendly grin.

                                 BERLIN
                        So what happened to the
                        barbecues, and fishing?

                                 ROSS
                        Watch my lips, coz you're not
                        gonna believe this - this is
                        a rare occurrence. We haven't
                        had a body in eighteen months.

     He finds keys and change and a sandwich in the Wino's raincoat.

                        How does anyone dead
                        as this lose a knife?

                                 BERLIN
                        What about that kid, Ross?

                                 ROSS
                        Oh, shit. Of course. The kid.
                             (Stands to shout)
                        Travis. Find that kid and get
                        the knife off him. He's gonna
                        lie to you - but he's got it -
                        so get it. Well, go on, get on
                        with it. Whatta you staring at?

     TRAVIS stares up like he just stuck his dick in a light socket.

                                 TRAVIS
                        I think I found some-
                        thing horrible, Sir

                                 ROSS
                        Whatta you mean, "horrible?"

                                 TRAVIS
                        I think I've found a hand.

     12:  EXT.  INFILL.  GARBAGE DUMP.  DAY.

     ROSS crouches in garbage. Peers into a trash sack with assist-
     ance of a flashlight. "You're right. It's a fucken hand." Pas-
     ses the light to BERLIN. His turn to examine the ruptured bag.

                                 BERLIN
                        Looks like a woman's hand?

     BERLIN finally stands. Offs the flashlight. And hands it back.

                                 ROSS
                        What do you think?

                                 BERLIN
                        I think you're here all day.

     13:  EXT.  INFILL.  GARBAGE DUMP.  DAY.

     Pissing with rain and unspeakably miserable.  The 'grid-search'
     is in progress and 50 square yards of the dump have been ripp-
     ed to pieces. Intermittent voices from police radios. More veh-
     icles down below including an ambulance with hazards revolving.
     Up here half a dozen arc-lights scald off vapor. BERLIN search-
     es under a busted umbrella. Looks up and runs into ROSS's eyes.

                                 ROSS
                        How much longer we here? We're
                        not gonna find nothing else .. ?

     He wears a rubber cape & looks like a huge pissed-off Napoleon.

                                 BERLIN
                        We give it one more hour. Did
                        the photographer do the dogs?

                                 ROSS
                        The dogs?

                                 BERLIN
                        Two dogs. He should do the dogs.

     And both turn towards a Voice shouting from deep in the gloom.

                                 VENABLES
                        Sergeant - we got a brassiere over
                        here. Looks like it could be blood.

                                 ROSS
                        Oh, shit.

                                 BERLIN
                        Alright, I'm coming ..

	Another intrusion from the radio. TRAVIS repeats the question.

                                 TRAVIS
                        The coroner wants to know if
                        we can release the derelict?

                                 ROSS
                        Ask him.

                                 BERLIN
                        Yeah, he can go ...

                                 ROSS
                        Think I'll lay down with him.
                        Only way I'll get outta here.

     Did someone say something funny? Does BERLIN just about smile.

                                 BERLIN
                        It's good to be with you, Ross.

     And this is probably the only time ROSS will look happy today.

                                 ROSS
                        Glad you finally made it, Bro ...

     14:  EXT.  CAR PARK.  POLICE STATION.  CITY OF EUREKA.  DAY.

     The Mercedes descends an incline and parks. Brown Chevys and
     black & white patrol cars. Dismal lights and raining like it
     doesn't end. BERLIN gets out and unloads the trunk (aquarium
     & insulated picnic box). Slams the trunk and reveals BLATTIS.

                                 BLATTIS
                        You want some umbrella?

     Proffers a big yellow one plus assistance carrying equipment.

                                 BERLIN
                        Is this normal?

                                 BLATTIS
                        Average rainfall, 48 inches.
                        Pisses down, October to June.

     Raining hard enough to hurt. A brisk intimacy across the lot.

                        Better in the summer.  You
                        get to fucka few tourists ..

     He hits a security code at the door. Obviously familiar with
     the station. Dialogue continues as they step into a corridor.

     15:  INT.  CORRIDOR/ADMINISTRATION.  POLICE STATION.  DAY.

                                 BLATTIS [BERLIN]
                        Not married are you, Sergeant? [No.]
                        That's good, you get to fuck a few
                        more. So how long you known Freddy?

                                 BERLIN
                        Freddy? Forever - he was my serg-
                        eant when I was a kid - don't get
                        to see a lot of each other - but
                        we been buddies two hundred years ..

                                 BLATTIS
                        Did he get you the job?

                                 BERLIN
                        I think he would have if he could
                        have - been trying to get me up
                        here long enough - I think he may
                        have bribed the old guy to retire ..

                                 BLATTIS
                        Popeye wasn't old. Younger than you.

     They push through doors into the biggest room in the building.
     A dozen desks back to back and all the clutter and clatter of
     typewriters and paperwork and Secretaries swapping the gossip.

     Too many cops to describe and no time to remember them anyway.
     But here's one making introductions. About 60 years old. Face
     a mix of brick and fat. The Chief of Eureka Police is CITRINE.

                                 CITRINE
                        Sergeants Serato, and Taylor.

     Any handshakes and greetings that fit in around the equipment.

                        Mr Travis, I think you know ..

                                 BERLIN
                        Do me a favor, Travis?  Bring in
                        the resta the stuff from my car?

     BLATTIS tosses his parasol "Don't lose it" and follows BERLIN.

                                 BLATTIS
                        Did you find the knife, Sergeant?

                                 BERLIN
                        No .. But we have a theory ..

                                 BLATTIS
                        Kid told me he didn't take it?

                                 BERLIN
                        Maybe he's lying to you?

     By now they're in an L shaped room with wood benches and bull-
     etin board all over the walls. Bullshit everywhere in packing
     cases. Dusty Playboy spreads amongst other junk on the boards.

                                 BLATTIS
                        Is it true you found a hand?

     And he benches the aquarium as BERLIN loses the insulated box.

                        Is that it?

                                 CITRINE (O.S.)
                        Interview over, Blattis ...

                                 BLATTIS
                        C'mon, Chief, if it's sensitive,
                        tell me .. I'm not taking notes ..

     Right now the box contains camera equipment which is unpacked.

                                 CITRINE
                        .. we got a body part. We don't
                        know what it is - probably some
                        kind of hospital debris - we're
                        gonna try and check it out. O.K.
                        Now you know as much as we do ..

                                 BLATTIS
                        Grateful for your candor, Sir.

                                 CITRINE
                        Then do me a favor, and keep
                        this outta the newspaper - that
                        dump serves a dozen different
                        communities, we don't even know
                        if it's ours? Till we do I don't
                        want no one worrying about ..

                                 BLATTIS
                        Wasn't frozen, was it, Sergeant?

                                 CITRINE
                        Come on, Michael, outta here, the
                        guys trying to move in. I told you
                        what we know, something else, you-
                        'll be the first to hear about it ..

     A Woman's face around the door. "Los Angeles for Sergeant Ber-
     lin." And goodbye BLATTIS as Berlin reaches for the telephone.

                                 BERLIN
                        Why did he ask if it was frozen?

                                 CITRINE
                        That, I couldn't tell you .. And
                        don't worry about anya this crap,
                        by the time you're back it's gone ..

     CITRINE splits as BERLIN picks up "Hey, Ronzo, good of you to
     call." A long phone lead and he continues to unpack equipment.

                                 BERLIN (Phone)
                        Listen, my time isn't good - but two
                        things - really important - the bras-
                        siere I sent you? - I need to know if
                        those stains are human blood - and if
                        they are, do they match the blood in
                        the sample? - C'mon, gimme a break, I
                        don't know anyone up here, it would
                        take two weeks - C'mon, Ronny, I'm ask-
                        ing nice? I really need to know wheth-
                        er I'm interested in that brassiere? ..

     A cut-out of Popeye The Sailor with fist round a camera on the
     wall. Telephone resistance is collapsing and he breaks a smile.

                        You're my favourite man - raining -
                        I gotta go - Ronny - I gotta go - I
                        got a house fulla removal men and a
                        date at the morgue - And, Ron, Con-
                        gratulations - you're my first call ..

     16:  INT.  MORGUE.  COUNTY HOSPITAL.  EUREKA.  DAY.

     ROSS has a Vic inhaler up his nostril. An inadequate defense.
     A sudden stink slams into his neck muscles. Head and inhaler
     travel rearward. He shifts eyes to BERLIN who scans the Bum's
     autopsy reports. A PATHOLOGIST comments on his handiwork into
     a microphone hanging from the ceiling. "Except as previously
     noted, the liver is not remarkable." ROSS doesn't believe it.

                                 PATHOLOGIST
                        .. if the knife hadn't killed
                        him, the booze would .. I nev-
                        er seen such a bad cirrhosis ..

                                 BERLIN
                        You say the cut's left to right?
                                 (He does)
                        Isn't that unusual? He's left handed?

     He picks up a nicotine-stained left hand. Simultaneously a LAB
     TECHNICIAN wants BERLIN to sign in exchange for the picnic box.

                                 PATHOLOGIST
                        I guess he was so drunk, he did-
                        n't know which hand he was using.
                                 (Re box)
                        What are you gonna do with it?

                                 BERLIN
                        Depends how healthy it is. If it's
                        any good, I'll try and get a print ..

     He hands the clip-board back and remembers a question for ROSS.

                        Oh, Ross, that newspaper guy at the
                        station, asked me if the hand was
                        "frozen?" Why would he ask me that?

                                 ROSS
                        Frozen? .. I've no idea ..

     Another fast fix on the Vic and BERLIN chews fresh gum. A need-
     le on a weighing machine quivers. "The liver weighs 1420 grams."

                        A few beers wouldn't do
                        that to you, would they?

                                 PATHOLOGIST
                        No, Freddy .. Not a few ..

     17:  INT.  KITCHEN.  THE ROSS RESIDENCE.  EUREKA.  DUSK.

     An explosion of hugs in the kitchen. Everything happens at once.
     MARGIE ROSS is slim and dark and still looking "twice as pretty."
     She's got compliments for BERLIN too if they can get out of each-
     other's arms "You're looking wonderful, John." But greetings are
     better performed than described, so I'm leaving it to the actors.

                                 ROSS
                        You do a rush on three pizzas?

     He emerges from the refrigerator wielding a bottle of champagne.

                                 MARGIE
                        I'm not giving him Pizza. I
                        haven't seem him for a year?
                        I'm gonna cook him a dinner.

                                 ROSS
                        Dinner's another night, darlin ..
                        This is a drive-by. I got an hour ..

     He detours via the kitchen door to shout upstairs. "Hey. Bobby.?"

                                 MARGIE
                        Bobby's out .. What's the hurry?

                                 ROSS
                        Friday night at City Hall. Got a
                        great chance to frighten the fat.

                                 MARGIE
                        Freddy's new obsession ..

                                 BERLIN
                        Who is who?

                                 ROSS
                        A professional, whining, con-person
                        bitch with an ass the size of Africa ..

     ROSS fights a difficult cork "You wanna get some glasses, Honey?"

                        She's an accounts-manager, very pal-
                        ly with our mayor, up to her elbows
                        in fraud, and I just can't prove it ..

                                 MARGIE
                        So tonight she confesses?

                                 ROSS
                        Tonight I'm feeling lucky ..

     The cork explodes and he goes for glasses but one isn't willing.

                                 BERLIN
                        Not for me ..

                                 ROSS
                        What d'you mean, I just opened it
                        for you? This is French champagne.

                                 MARGIE
                        No it isn't .. It's Californian ..

                                 ROSS
                        Even better.

                                 BERLIN
                        Not today .. I'm on a diet to-
                        day .. I'll take a diet soda ..

                                 ROSS
                        Since when did you drink diet soda?

                                 MARGIE
                        Stop nagging him.  If he doesn't
                        want it, he doesn't want it. You-
                        're quacking like an old duck ..

     And she's already at the fridge and popping a can of diet cola.

                        Here you go, Honey .. You're
                        looking wonderful, John .. I
                        can't believe we got you here ..

                                 ROSS
                        How's the new residence?

                                 BERLIN
                        O.K.

                                 ROSS
                        What does that mean?

                                 BERLIN
                        Not too good in daylight ..

                                 ROSS
                        C'mon, just shut your eyes until
                        it's painted.  You're gonna love
                        it. This is "God's Country," John.

     18:  INT.  CRIME LAB.  POLICE STATION.  DAY.

     This in huge close-up. Focus hardens on a finger tip. A shock
     of light. The focus adjusts and a flash bulb fires again. BER-
     LIN moves away from the view-finder. Chewing gum stuck to the
     side of the camera returns to his mouth. He activates an auto-
     matic rewind. It fills the silence while he heads for a phone.

     A lot of paraphernalia and technical type of shit. The bullet-
     in board is filling up. Photographs chronicle the hours spent
     on the dump. He dials with eyes on the pictures. A dozen cata-
     logue discovery of the bra. "This is Mike Blattis/I can't take
     your call right now/ If you have a message/You know the sound."

     19:  INT.  DUTY ROOM/CORRIDOR/ADMIN.  POLICE STATION.  NIGHT.

     A reel to reel tape recorder the size of a refrigerator domin-
     ates the room. A black board details day/night/weekend shifts.
     T.V. security monitors. A rack of night-sticks. And of course
     paperwork. VENABLES crouches over a desk filling something in.

                                 BERLIN
                        Would you drop these off for me?

     Sure he will and six rolls of film are handed across. "Are you
     winning, Sir?" BERLIN smiles and VENABLES follows him out into
     the corridor. A couple of Coppers on their way in. One big and
     morose looking called BISLEY. The other we've already met. Tay-
     lor is a tall balding guy with hazy reddish hair "How you doin?"
     BERLIN responds a happy "O.K." with eyes returning to VENABLES.

                        You know something strange about
                        that hand? I think it was frozen?

                                 VENABLES
                        Frozen?

                                 BERLIN
                        Yeah. What does that mean to you?

     Apparently little. They arrive in the big room. It's deserted.

                        C'mon, Venables, you're a policeman.
                        And policemen always have an answer?

                                 VENABLES
                        Well, Sir ..

                                 BERLIN
                        Well, what?

                                 VENABLES
                        Well, we had a very bad murder
                        here, coupla years ago. Not act-
                        ually in our county, but south
                        of here. Girl with no head, no
                        hands. You didn't read about it?
                             (He didn't)
                        It was big shit. They had forty,
                        fifty detective working it. Nev-
                        er identified her.  Never found
                        the head, never found the hands ..

     A vacuum cleaner starts somewhere but BERLIN isn't hearing it.

                        So it could be that some crazy's
                        stored her hand in a freezer, and
                        only now decided to get rid of it?

                                 BERLIN
                        Where do I find the file on that?

                                 VENABLES
                        In there if we got anything? I
                        believe the code was "Jennifer."

     BERLIN is already looking. A last question as VENABLES leaves.

                        Was it really frozen, Sergeant?

                                 BERLIN
                        No. Been dead two weeks.

     20:  INT.  CRIME LAB.  POLICE STATION.  DAWN.

     The atrophied Hand is emersed in some kind of fluid. Index and
     second fingers bound with wire just below the upper joint. BER-
     LIN reaches for steel pliers. His face remains in close-up for
     a nasty "snap" as he cuts a finger off. He's filling a syringe
     with the same fluid when ROSS walks in. "Jesus, you still here?"

                                 BERLIN
                        What time is it?

                                 ROSS
                        Seven thirty-five .. Here,
                        "Town Gets Top Cop." I was
                        gonna pin it to your wall.

     A newspaper featuring a small photograph and article on Berlin.
     Holding the Finger he carefully inserts a hypodermic needle un-
     der the wire. Gently shoots in fluid to inflate the finger pad.

                                 BERLIN
                        Why so coy about the word "frozen"?

                                 ROSS
                        Because, don't get into it ...

                                 BERLIN
                        There's nothing in the files?

                                 ROSS
                        Watch my lips .. Don't get into it ..

     The Finger pad is sufficiently restored to try and get a print.

                        It wasn't our case, wasn't our coun-
                        ty, and got nothing to do with that.

     21:  INT.  CRIME LAB.  POLICE STATION.  DAY.

     A slide projector does its stuff on a sheet of card pinned to
     the door. Close-up of the Hand and off screen voice of BERLIN.
     "Notice anything weird about it?" The answer from ROSS is "No."
     A pen moves into frame and BERLIN points to marks on the Hand.

                                 BERLIN
                        Look - 1 - 2 - 3/4 - 5 - 6  - 7 ..

     The machine shunts up another slide. Now the back of the Hand.

                        I count eleven scars on this hand,
                        and four that might be? .. Now I
                        count em on my hand? Five. I'm 42
                        years old.  This girl's about 18?
                        How come she's got so many scars?

     He walks out of the projection beam and neon light flutters on.

                        So tell me about "Jennifer?"

     Reaches for a pack of cigarettes and perches on a nearby stool.

                        You know I'm gonna find out.

     BERLIN counts out cigarettes. And destroys them in an ashtray.

                                 ROSS
                        It's an "unsolved." They spent 500
                        thousand dollars & bought emselves
                        a dead end - You might wanna check
                        it with Taylor, he worked the case.

                                 BERLIN
                        I already did. What's his problem?

     ROSS reaches for the paper & thumb-tacks it to the wall "That."

                                 ROSS
                        He thinks you stole his promotion.
                               (Re cigarettes)
                        What exactly you doin there, John?

                                 BERLIN
                        It's a method for quitting smoking.

     A Zippo opens (sports L.A.P.D. insignia) and BERLIN lights up.
     He takes a punishing hit and exhales a lungful across the lab.

                                 ROSS
                        That's an interesting method?
                        Must help beat the withdrawal?

     Back on his feet BERLIN is about to begin more work on the Hand.

                                 BERLIN
                        It's a technique I read about.
                        If you smoke 60 a day, you buy
                        three packs, throw one cigar-
                        ette away, and smoke 59. Day 2,
                        you throw 2 away and smoke 58 ..

                                 ROSS
                        Why don't you throw them
                        all away, and smoke none?

                                 BERLIN
                        Because it's a ritual you gotta
                        go through with. I'm down to 10.

     Daftest thing Ross ever heard. BERLIN is poised to make a print.

                                 ROSS
                        You want my advice?

                                 BERLIN
                        Maybe?

                                 ROSS
                        Find yourself a farmer's daughter
                        with nice big fucking tits, and
                        shake that "bye-bye." Send it to
                        Sacramento, John .. I sniff grief ..

     22:  INT.  STAIRS/LIVING ROOM.  BERLIN'S HOUSE.  DAY.

     BERLIN & ROSS are opposite ends of a bed jammed on the stairs.
     "Bastards. I gave em a 20 buck tip." Various navigational sug-
     gestions from ROSS win them another stair. Plus advice from a
     12 year old called BOBBY. "You gotta go left, Dad." ROSS knows
     he's gotta go left! Both heave as MARGIE walks out the kitchen.

                                 MARGIE
                        You're all done except the floor.

     The house is a zoo of furniture. Bullshit piled up everywhere.

                                 BERLIN
                        You're a saint, Margie, thanks ..

     By now she's got the apron off and her coat on. "C'mon, Bobby."

                                 MARGIE
                        Don't forget the wagon, Darlin?

     And off they go via a slammed door as the phone starts to ring.

     23:  INT.  BEDROOM.  HOUSE.  DAY.

     In they stagger. The bed goes down. And BERLIN sprawls on top
     of it. Devastated for oxygen. "Alright. That's it. I'm fucked."

                                 ROSS
                        You gotta stop smoking ..

                                 BERLIN
                        I am stopping smoking ...

                                 ROSS
                        I don't mean this "system" shit
                        that keeps you sucking, I mean
                        stop .. I was exactly like you
                        are .. I used to wake in the
                        night - heart going so hard
                        I coulda made love with my left
                        tit .. If I can stop, you can ..

                                 BERLIN
                        How'd you do it, old man?

                                 ROSS
                        Someone bet me a dollar ..

                                 BERLIN
                        A dollar? .. Not worth
                        giving up for a dollar ..

     BERLIN manages to find air to sit. Reaches for the Ansa Phone.

                                 ROSS
                        Alright. I'll bet you fifty?

     First call comes from Delaware Roofing vis-a-vis the estimate.

                                 BERLIN
                        Fifty dollars?  You got a bet.

     During these proceedings the machine has moved to another call.

                                 [MACHINE]
                        [J.B./Ronzo/Got some results for
                        you/ First/ the blood on the bra
                        is human/ and it's not a popular
                        brand/A.B. Neg and that's a rare
                        one/Two/the blood on the brassie-
                        re is compatible with the blood
                        from the hand/Three/If you need
                        anything else the official answer
                        from all us Christians down here,
                        is fuck off/Shoot me a duck/Bye]

                                 ROSS
                        What are you gonna do, Soldier?

                                 BERLIN
                        I'm gonna dig up "Jennifer."

     24:  INT.  (TELETYPE)/ADMIN.  POLICE STATION.  NIGHT.

     And here's part of the "exhumation." CITRINE stares at a tele-
     type machine waiting for transmission on Jennifer to complete.
     Approximate date of birth/Approximate date of death/ Identity
     Unknown. Visible misgivings as he hauls it out and reads. One
     or two chairs already on desks. ROSS still at his pawing over
     documents with a detective called SERATO. Cigarette smoke and
     shirt sleeves. ROSS looks up and catches CITRINE as he passes.

                                 ROSS
                        Chief, I gotta talk to
                        ya about this fat lady?

                                 CITRINE
                        What about her?

                                 ROSS
                        She's making my life a
                        misery .. I wanna give
                        her a lie-detector test?

     CITRINE continues up the carpet. "Alright, we'll talk about it."

     25:  INT.  CRIME LAB.  POLICE STATION.  NIGHT.

     A florescent glow from a T.V. monitor supplies the only light.
     BERLIN vacillates interest between the scanner and the screen.

                                 CITRINE (O.S.)
                        What is that?

                                 BERLIN
                        Laser enhancement of the finger-
                        tip .. it's really bothering me ..
                        See these striations right here?
                             (Green on the screen)
                        It's like she's always worrying
                        the end of her finger? Rubbing it
                        with a thumb nail, or something?

     But CITRINE isn't interested in finger nails. He's staring at
     a polystyrene torso of a faceless girl. She wears a brassiere
     stuffed with newspaper and a black wig. (Welcome Jennifer Two)

                        She's almost identical to Jennifer.
                        Slim - White - same age - bra size
                        is even the same. Nicely made lady.

     CITRINE stares at the Dummy like he's gonna ask it a question.

                                 CITRINE
                        How do you know her hair's black?

                                 BERLIN
                        Hair on her hand. Plus Jen-
                        nifer had raven black hair.

                                 CITRINE
                        What is all this Jennifer stuff?

     He waves a handful of teletype before dumping it on a bench.

                        These cases aren't connected, John?

                                 BERLIN
                        Yes, Sir, I think they maybe.
                        I think "Jennifer," and this
                        lady got hit by the same guy?

                                 CITRINE
                        I don't see that at all ..

     On the board is a super-imposed picture of a hand over a wrist.

                                 BERLIN
                        I got four points of posit-
                        ive comparison on the cut ..

                                 CITRINE
                        Yeah, that's all very inter-
                        esting, but where's the body?

     A question he doesn't need because he hasn't an answer. CITRINE
     has an eye on further photographs relevant to the Jennifer case.

                        I don't know nothing about this "Jenn-
                        ifer" girl, cept what some of the guys
                        told me - but principal feature of the
                        case was a gruesome displayal of the
                        body. He wanted it found. So if this is
                        the same guy, why's he hidden this one?

     Another question he can't answer - and this time he doesn't get
     a chance - BISLEY walks in with an apology for the interruption.
     Got a face like Humphrey Bogart's mother fucked a different guy.

                                 BISLEY
                        Just wondered if you had time to
                        get around to my pharmacy stuff?

                                 BERLIN
                        You'll have it in the morning ..

                                 BISLEY
                        Alright, I'll try again tomorrow.

     Bisley has gone but his tension stays. BERLIN unwraps fresh gum.

                                 CITRINE
                        Probably making him feel a bit
                        antsy seein it back on the wall.
                        He worked a lotta time on this.

                                 BERLIN
                        I thought it was Taylor's case?

                                 CITRINE
                        Sucked in officers from all over
                        the county. And it was the worst
                        six months this station ever had.

     This is CITRINE's shop and BERLIN isn't gonna row it with him.

                                 BERLIN
                        What do you want me to do, Chief?

                                 CITRINE
                        I'm not telling you what to do.
                        What I will say, is right now,
                        that child's tricycle there is
                        more important to me than this ..

     He refers to a little bicycle. Vouchered and obviously stolen.
     By now CITRINE is at the hinges. A pause before he disappears.

                        Why don't you give it a minute, &
                        stop by my office. We should talk.

     26:  INT.  MERCEDES SEDAN.  CITY OF EUREKA.  NIGHT.

     Melted neon in the streets. A wet mid-town night. Nothing but
     sound of windshield wipers and click of a Zippo lighter. ROSS
     rides stoic passenger while BERLIN drives with festering eyes.

                                 ROSS
                        .. what does he think it is?

                                 BERLIN [ROSS]
                        Everything it isn't [make a left].
                        He even tried a "self-inflicted."

                                 ROSS
                        It's possible.

                                 BERLIN
                        C'mon, Ross, the bra and hand were
                        in different bags a 100 feet apart ..

     They stop at a light and a beeper goes as warning to the blind.

                        What's she gonna do?  Dump her bra
                        in one bag, her hand in the other,
                        and wander off whistling Hey Jude?

                                 ROSS
                        It's the garage on the far corner.

     BERLIN is worrying at his fingertip on the wheel of the Zippo.

                        You can't stop it, can you?

                                 BERLIN
                        What do you mean?

                                 ROSS
                        Worrying - clicking - picking - You
                        may as well be back in Los Angeles.

                                 BERLIN
                        What do you mean, Ross?

     The lights change and off they go and BERLIN waits for a turn.

                                 ROSS
                        Why don't you dump it? Mail it off.
                        Give the fucking F.B.I. a present?

                                 BERLIN
                        Why don't you dump the "Fat Lady?"

                                 ROSS
                        Because I dislike her too much ..

                                 BERLIN
                        O.K. and I'm not in love with this
                        fukker? That's how I feel about him.

                                 ROSS
                        No you don't. That's how you think
                        you feel about him. That's how you
                        feel about yourself. You won't give
                        yourself one-fucking-minute for you.

     And by now they've arrived and pulled up on the garage forecourt.
     It's indicative of their friendship that ROSS can talk like this.

                        Wait for me. It might not be ready.

     He quits the car and BERLIN watches him scurry towards a service
     shop. Rain beats on the roof and BERLIN looks stubbed out. A lot
     of cuts coming up and here are some of them. Runs a hand through
     his hair in unconscious frustration. A finger constantly bothers
     the Zippo. Eyes towards ROSS who silhouettes in florescent light.

     Somewhere in the background the lights change to red. Once again
     the beeping sound of traffic-lights speaking to the blind. Maybe
     he looks across but that doesn't matter. Something just happens
     inside his head he isn't yet quite aware of. Everything in close
     up. Big on the Zippo. Big on BERLIN. And he leaps out of the car.

     BERLIN sprints through the weather.  A station wagon is still in
     the air at the end of an hydraulic jack. Surprise from ROSS and a
     MECHANIC as BERLIN arrives. Fuck the fanbelt and listen to this.

                                 BERLIN
                        I just had this insane idea - if
                        I'm wrong, I'll take a week off
                        and redecorate your entire house ..

     Rain beats at the roof and the jack sinks the wagon behind them.

                        She's blind, Ross - that's why all
                        the scars - hear that traffic light?
                        That noise is to help blind people -
                        that's why the marks on her finger-
                        tips? - this lady reads in Braille ..

     27:  INT.  ADMINISTRATION.  POLICE STATION.  DAY.

     BERLIN sits at a desk at the end of the room. Nothing here but
     a legal pad and a phone. The pad is covered in names & numbers.
     Right now he's into a call and this is sounding promising."How
     old?" And he writes 26. "How long?" About 6 weeks ago. Hope in
     his eyes as he looks across to a woman called ANN. She's doing
     what he's doing on a different line "Wait a minute, I specific-
     ally said I was looking for a girl?" And all hope over because
     Lesley is a boy. But here comes ANN & this might be something?

                                 ANN
                        Shasta-Trinity Institute. Line one.

     Sticks a sheet of notes on his desk and he junks the last call.

                                 BERLIN (New call)
                        Hello .. Yes .. This is Sergeant
                        Berlin .. Yes, that's right .. I
                        believe my assistant explained? ..
                        How long ago was that? .. Uh-huh.
                        O.K. .. Who is who? .. Whass his
                        name? Goodridge? O.K. I'll hold ..

     ROSS in transit grinning from ear to ear. BERLIN interested in
     little but his notes and ROSS in nothing but obvious good news.

                                 ROSS
                        Pig Woman agreed to take a test.

                                 BERLIN
                        I think I got something - twenty
                        two years old, dark hair - study-
                        ing mathematics - (Yes, yes, I'm
                        holding) - Last seen 5 weeks ago ..

     28:  EXT.  LANDSCAPE/ROAD.  TRINITY FOREST.  DAY.

     Mussorgsky is back on a shock cut. Big music and a shattering
     landscape. Juniper woods and mountains. Sunlight on fresh fal-
     len snow. Somewhere a long way off a car crawls up the valley.

     Ross's car bursts into frame and as quickly the bend snatches
     it away. An unexpected building in the distance. Victorian at
     a glance but probably later. A clock tower and fifty lifeless
     windows. The Chevy disappears towards its somber architecture.

     29:  EXT.  THE SHASTA-TRINITY INSTITUTE.  DAY.

     Pine trees and slush and parked cars. The Chevrolet swings in
     and parks in front of the mansion. Breath in the air and eyes
     on the ugly pile as they slam doors and head for its entrance.

     30:  INT.  ENTRANCE/RECEPTION.  INSTITUTE.  DAY.

     BERLIN first with ROSS following. As soon as they hit the ent-
     rance they trigger a recorded voice. "YOU ARE NOW AT THE MAIN
     ENTRANCE. THERE ARE SIX STEPS." Midway up them with ROSS look-
     ing back. "RECEPTION IS THROUGH SWING DOORS AND TO YOUR RIGHT."

     31:  INT.  PRINCIPAL'S OFFICER.  INSTITUTE.  DAY.

     GOODRIDGE is mid-50's with a beard like Abraham Lincoln. Sits
     far side of his desk alternating eyes between ROSS and BERLIN.
     The latter studies a photograph of a Girl in a file. It's pos-
     sible they've found Jennifer Two? "How recent is the picture?"

                                 GOODRIDGE
                        As recent as we have .. What ex-
                        actly is your interest in Amber?

                                 BERLIN
                        I'm afraid I can't give you an ans-
                        wer to that, Mr Goodridge. As I ex-
                        plained to your secretary, we're do-
                        ing a lotta looking, but we're not
                        even sure it's her we're lookin for ..

                                 GOODRIDGE
                        Then what are you hoping I'm gon-
                        na do? Dissuade, or persuade you?

                                 BERLIN
                        I was hopin since we spoke that you
                        might have remembered something that
                        would give us an idea where she is?

                                 GOODRIDGE
                        Then you could have saved yourself
                        a lot of driving, Sergeant. What I
                        said on the phone's the same as I'm
                        saying now. I got no idea where Amb-
                        er is, or who it was took her there.

     He doesn't like them but not as much as ROSS doesn't like him.

                                 ROSS
                        A blind girl can just walk out of
                        here, and you don't know who with?

                                 GOODRIDGE
                        You find something curious in that?

                                 ROSS
                        Yeah, I guess I do.

                                 GOODRIDGE
                        Then let me put your mind at ease ..
                        Firstly, Amber isn't "blind" - she
                        has some useful vision - and second,
                        this isn't a prison, it's a college
                        of higher education - a severe vis-
                        ual disability doesn't mean my stud-
                        ents don't value their independence
                        as much as anybody else - and Amber
                        was a very independent young woman -
                        She decided to leave - so she left ..

                                 ROSS
                        And you got no idea with who?

                                 GOODRIDGE
                        No, Sergeant, I got no idea with who.
                        And I might add, that in another six
                        weeks, a hundred and fifty students
                        will be leaving here, & driving away
                        for their Christmas holidays with pe-
                        ople whose name I-won't-know-either ..

     ROSS could sock him in the crop but the phone rings and he ex-
     cuses himself to answer it. Whatever he hears he isn't liking.

                        You have an appointment with Miss
                        Robertson?

                                 BERLIN
                        Yes, Sir.

                                 GOODRIDGE
                        As she's a member of my staff,
                        may I ask what this is about?

                                 BERLIN
                        Well, apparently, she saw Amber the
                        weekend she left, & was briefly in
                        the room with the guy she left with.

                                 GOODRIDGE
                        I see .. Well, she's teaching an-
                        other class at four .. I'd apprec-
                        iate it if you don't detain her ..

     32:  INT.  CORRIDOR.  INSTITUTE.  DAY.

     Looking back down a deserted corridor. Someone tried to put sun-
     shine on the walls with yellow paint. Somewhere a long way away
     there is a sound like children singing. ROSS loathes this joint.
     Loathes its silence. Eyes back to BERLIN as he rings a doorbell.

                                 ROSS
                        Where is everyone?

                                 BERLIN
                        I dunno .. I guess this is
                        staff side of the building?

     Here come footsteps and the door is opened by HELENA ROBERTSON.
     Early 20's and blonde and not immediately beautiful. But delic-
     ate features than need no make up and big dark eyes. They look
     away for introductions as though she's shy. ROSS & BERLIN grab
     glances as they follow in. Neither expected HELENA to be blind.

     33:  INT.  APARTMENT.  INSTITUTE.  DAY.

     Claustrophobia evaporates instantly. Great views down the val-
     ley from every window. Plus a bizarre jumble of furniture and
     colors. But no pictures on the walls. No friendly photographs.
     Nor any lights. Although the afternoon is shutting down there
     isn't a light in the room. ROSS elects to stay at the windows.
     BERLIN takes an offered chair. HELENA sits nervously opposite.

                                 HELENA
                        What d'you wanna ask, Mr Ross?

                                 BERLIN
                        I'm Mr Berlin.  Mr Ross is right
                        here. And Mr Ross is maybe gonna
                        take a few notes, if that's O.K.?
                             (She nods)
                        O.K. .. I'd like you to tell me
                        in what ever way you want, what
                        you can remember about the time
                        you spent with Amber on the aft-
                        ernoon she left? Take your time,
                        and nothing's too trivial, O.K.

                                 HELENA
                        Well, I think I told you on the
                        phone .. I went up to her room
                        to say good-bye, and we just sat
                        on the bed and chatted a while,
                        while her friend was coming in
                        and out collecting her things ..

                                 BERLIN
                        What kind of friend? Was he a boy
                        friend? An old friend? New friend?

     Lots of headshake. And lots of silences. "I really don't know."

                        That's O.K. Can you give me any
                        idea what this fellow was like?
                             (Headshake)
                        Well, d'you know how old he was?
                             (Headshake)
                        Alright, let me put it this way?
                        How old d'you think I am? Twenty-
                        six? Thirty-nine? Or fifty-three?

                                 HELENA
                        Fifty-three.

     Possibly the only grin ROSS is going to get out of this place.

                                 BERLIN
                        You must have some idea about him.

                                 HELENA
                        When we spoke on the phone,
                        did you know I was blonde?

                                 BERLIN
                        No.

                                 HELENA
                        Why not? You heard my voice?

     A good point. And a point taken. And BERLIN might even say so.

                        We don't have some kind of
                        sixth-sense, you know. Ex-
                        cept in ridiculous novels ..

     Now another silence overtaken by a low whistle in another room.

                        He used a breath freshener ...

     A sardonic headshake from ROSS. Well that solves the case then!

                        And I think his name was John?

                                 BERLIN
                        John? .. You never said that
                        on the phone? .. What makes
                        you think his name was John?

                                 HELENA
                        I don't know. I guess she must
                        have called him John? I'm mak-
                        ing tea. Would you like some?

     BERLIN would but ROSS wouldn't. She leaves and whispers begin.

                                 BERLIN
                        This looks promising .. I
                        think this one could be it?

                                 ROSS
                        Thank Christ we got a witness.

                                 BERLIN
                        Let me just keep going a while.
                        She might remember something?

                                 ROSS
                        What? She's blind, Bro. You
                        may as well ask one of these
                        Beethoven guys on the piano?

     He thumbs a cluster of cheap busts of composers on an upright.

                        We're better off having another
                        pop at old Abe Lincoln down the-
                        re? Get angry with the prick. Get
                        some of his "useful visions" in?
                        Someone must have seen something?

     Negative from BERLIN. Checked it out. Sunday and no one about.

                        This is fucken crazy. Two hours
                        here, two hours back, and the
                        only word I've written is John ..

     A touch later and the sun is setting. ROSS stands at a window
     to watch it go. Watches one or two cars driving away. Watches
     a bird sitting outside on the fire-escape. BERLIN's voice can
     just about be heard off screen "You said he spoke? Can you re-
     member what he said?" ROSS saunters back into HELENA's answer.

                                 HELENA
                        Well, he just said, come on,
                        hurry up, will you, because
                        it's starting to snow again.

     Empty teacups and empty notebook. ROSS sits opposite BERLIN.

                        And I remember, he was a lit-
                        tle breathless from carrying
                        the cases because the elevat-
                        or had gone out that weekend.

                                 BERLIN
                        The elevator wasn't working?

                                 HELENA
                        No, it has a mind of its own.

     A clock strikes four somewhere. And BERLIN knows he's lost it.

                                 BERLIN
                        Can I see your hands?

                                 HELENA
                        My hands?

     He takes her hands and HELENA immediately looks uncomfortable.
     He examines scars and she stares at him with her useless eyes.

                        I have a class.  I have to go.

                                 BERLIN
                        Is there anything else you can
                        tell me? Anything about him or
                        her? Doesn't matter how small?

                                 HELENA
                        No. Except he smoked. Like you.

                                 BERLIN
                        Me?

                                 HELENA
                        Yes, I could smell it on his
                        breath, like I can on your's.

     A taut instant between ROSS and BERLIN. BERLIN caught out and
     he knows it. ROSS roars in silence "YOU LYING PIG" and writes
     in his notebook. The angle switches to see "BERLIN IS A LIAR."

                        I'm late .. I really have to go ..

     Everyone suddenly on their feet and HELENA gets into a jacket.

                                 BERLIN
                        D'you have a dog? Seeing Eye Dog?

                                 HELENA
                        No.

                                 BERLIN
                        Lotta scratch-marks on your door?

                                 HELENA
                        Sometimes I look after friends dogs,
                        if they go to dances, or something?

                                 ROSS
                        Could I just refer you to
                        this memo here, Sergeant?

     He tries to get his notebook under BERLIN's nose.  But BERLIN
     isn't looking or listening but following HELENA into her hall.

                                 BERLIN
                        Did Amber have a dog?

                                 HELENA
                        Yes.

                                 BERLIN
                        What color was it?

                                 HELENA
                        I don't know.

     She opens the door and ROSS is barely through before it slams.

     34:  INT.  CORRIDOR.  INSTITUTE.  DAY.

     ROSS baits BERLIN up the corridor. Ridicules in silence while
     counting imaginary winnings. Watch my lips! F.I.F.T.Y. HELENA
     walks innocent of the pantomime and BERLIN tries to ignore it.

                                 BERLIN
                        .. if she writes, or calls, or any-
                        thing at all, you let me know, O.K.

     He bells the elevator refusing to acknowledge ROSS's bullshit.

                        I'll leave a number with the office ..

     Lips drill a whisper into his ear. "Fifty fucken dollars, O.K."

                        What exactly do you teach, Helena?

                                 HELENA
                        Music composition .. and cello ..

                                 ROSS
                        Fifty of em. And I want em now.

     Meanwhile the elevator arrives triggering a Voice. "YOU ARE NOW
     ON THE FOURTH FLOOR." Doors slide open and Christ look at this?
     What kind of eye-defect needs glasses like this? Lenses like ei-
     ther half of a glass ball.  He's early 30's and decidedly "iffy."
     Is he student/staff or what? As he exits they enter staring aft-
     er him. As the doors close the MYOPIC turns to stare after them.

     35:  INT.  CHEVROLET.  TRINITY VALLEY.  DUSK.

     ROSS drives and BERLIN studies Amber's file. "Wanna beer?" No
     answer but cans appear anyway from a pack between Ross's legs.

                                 BERLIN
                        Had a seeing Eye Dog since she
                        was eighteen .. didn't I tell
                        you those dogs meant something ..

                                 ROSS
                        No, you didn't.

                                 BERLIN
                        Alright, I didn't, but I nearly
                        did, and if I had I'd have been
                        right .. I knew there was some-
                        thing about that Labrador, that
                        dog was too good to be dead ..
                        We gotta get back up that dump ..

                                 ROSS
                        No way .. not me, Mister. I'm not
                        going up there again. Might find
                        someone's prick in a hot-dog roll.

                                 BERLIN
                        We're going.

                                 ROSS
                        Forget it. They got stringent hyg-
                        iene rules. He's long gone in lime.

     ROSS pops cans and hands one over. But BERLIN doesn't want it.

                                 BERLIN
                        Maybe not? I'm feeling lucky ..

                                 ROSS
                        So am I. But where's my money?

                                 BERLIN
                        Don't start again. If you win a
                        bet, you can't keep winning it ..

                                 ROSS
                        Pay me, and I shut up.

                                 BERLIN
                        I haven't got it.

                                 ROSS
                        Then give me that Zippo.

                                 BERLIN
                        Why?

                                 ROSS
                        I need some security. I
                        don't trust you anymore.

                                 BERLIN
                        I had one puff on a pipe.

                                 ROSS
                        I don't want excuses, I want that
                        weird-looking stuff called "cash."

     Snaps fingers "Gimme the lighter." And he does to shut him up.

                        I'll tell you what I'm gonna do?
                        I'm gonna do you a big favor ..
                        Forget the 50 and I'll keep this.

                                 BERLIN
                        What do you want it for?

                                 ROSS
                        To throw out of the window.

     Does it as he says it. Bye-bye Zippo! BERLIN can't believe it.

                                 BERLIN
                        What are you doing, Ross?
                        I've had that 15 years! ..

                                 ROSS
                        It's not your friend. It
                        keeps you sucking. Remem-
                        ber the old Bum's lungs?

                                 BERLIN
                        I remember the old bastard's
                        liver! I don't believe you
                        did that. I had a great sent-
                        imental attachment to that.

                                 ROSS
                        You want me to stop the car?

     An academic question considering the Zippo went down a ravine.

                                 BERLIN
                        No! Get me to that garbage dump!
                        I'm gonna find that fucking dog!

     36:  EXT.  CITY DUMP.  CITY OF EUREKA.  NIGHT.

     Gloom congeals around flashlights. A winter mist falling down.
     TRIMBLE and Doberman watch as BERLIN goes at it with a shovel.
     A dozen graves already dug and he's halfway into another. Des-
     pite the cold he sweats in shirt sleeves. Also breathless and
     rests to catch his wind. "Don't you have to go to bed?" No he
     doesn't. He wants to see the victim. Digging recommences with
     TRIMBLE supplying the light. BERLIN suddenly stops. "Get that
     lamp down here." White lime. Black fur. They've found the Dog.

     BERLIN begins an examination holding a tiny flashlight in his
     teeth. Eyes excitedly back to TRIMBLE and gesturing towards a
     bag. "That bag there. You find a knife and a paira long-nosed
     pliers." TRIMBLE does it relishing the snap of a switch-blade.

     BERLIN still busy with the light in his mouth. TRIMBLE pissed
     because he can't see what's happening. BERLIN removes a crump-
     led bullet from the back of the Labrador's skull. Holds it up
     for scrutiny. Small calibre. Badly distorted. "Looks like a 22?"

                                 BERLIN
                        You didn't shoot him did you?

                                 TRIMBLE
                        Me .. I love dogs .. Ask him?

     37:  INT.  ANTI ROOM/ADMINISTRATION.  POLICE STATION.  DAY.

     LETTERS BIG AS A HOUSE. And Loud. The printer reciprocates as
     fast as its mechanics are capable. Details coming in from San
     Diego. VICAP Case Number/F.B.I. Case Number/Victim Status/etc
     etc. Letters smacking into paper too fast to read. But one de-
     tail is repeated constantly and underlined. "Identity Unknown."

     Transmission ends and BERLIN hauls at least a yard of homicide
     out of the machine. Can't believe what he's looking at. "Jesus.
     He hit six." Reads as he walks back into the big room and gets
     interrupted by a call. "Miss Robertson. Holding." He heads for
     the phone with eyes following ANN "Find Ross for me, will you?"

                                 BERLIN (Phone)
                        Berlin .. yeah .. that's nice of
                        you, Helena, but I already found
                        out .. black, yes .. No, no, of
                        course not, good of you to call ..
                        You heard a what? .. A hollow car?

     A hand shoves papers at the edge of his vision. TAYLOR looks a
     mite cheesy. "You got a minute for this?" And BERLIN nods sure.

                        Yes, I'm still here .. Why didn't
                        you mention that? .. I see .. Al-
                        right, we should talk again .. No,
                        I'm just south of my eye-lids in
                        it right now .. How about Sunday?

     38:  EXT.  COAST ROAD.  HUMBOLDT BAY.  EUREKA.  DAY.

     The first shining day of November. Sand dunes and an infinite
     stretch of beach. Behind the sea-break is a lagoon and a tiny
     harbor.  Berlin's Mercedes descends the coast road towards it.

     39:  EXT.  HARBOR.  HUMBOLDT BAY.  EUREKA.  DAY.

     Ross's boat is a 35 foot fisherman. Shining brass and varnish.
     But like him it's getting on and often grumpy. This last qual-
     ity presently evident in both. Engine roaring and ROSS is cov-
     ered in oil. BERLIN has to shout above the racket to be heard.

                                 BERLIN
                        .. I put the slug in for a ballis-
                        tics report, the man tells me, for
                        get it. Soft lead, it's worthless ..
                        I think, fuck it. And fuck Citrine.
                        I call a friend of mine in Los Ang-
                        eles, and he runs our whole damned
                        show through a main-frame looking
                        for anything similar to our ladies
                        shot with a twenty-two - you don't
                        believe what he finds in San Diego ..

     ROSS detours eyes to wave at his Son. "Watch those revs there."

                        Would you shut it down a min-
                        ute, Ross? This is important.

     ROSS signals BOBBY to turn off. And the diesel splutters down.

                                 ROSS
                        Alright, let's take a walk around
                        the block .. I gotta buy a gasket ..

     40:  EXT.  QUAY/HARBOR.  HUMBOLDT BAY.  DAY.

     Seagulls and sunshine and probably Saturday because the place
     is busy. ROSS walks with BERLIN up a wooden quay. Their journ-
     ey will take them across a small bridge towards a Marine Shop.

                                 BERLIN
                        Six girls over a period of 18
                        months, and give or take a head
                        or two, the M.O.'s exactly the
                        same. Dark hair. No hands. All
                        shot with a high velocity twen-
                        ty-two in the back of the head.

                                 ROSS
                        How come the F.B.I. don't put
                        anya this together? They work-
                        ed over "Jennifer" for months?

                                 BERLIN
                        They possibly did - but they nev-
                        er had a head, so they never had
                        a bullet - and they never got an
                        I.D. - not on any of em - never
                        bust a homicide unless you know
                        who your victim is - we're the
                        first to get a positive identity.

                                 ROSS
                        Identity of whom? You got a girl,
                        doesn't even have a driver's lic-
                        ense? .. She's untraceable, John ..
                        You need fifty detectives on this.

                                 BERLIN
                        That's what I'm here for. I want
                        you to come and see Citrine with
                        me?  He's not gonna here it from
                        me but I know he'd listen to you.

                                 ROSS
                        Listen to me saying what?

                                 BERLIN
                        I wanna take that fucking Blind In-
                        stitute to pieces .. Every address
                        book, every phone call, everyone in
                        and outta there in the last 5 years ..

                                 ROSS
                        For a dead dog?

                                 BERLIN
                        We've fused into a major series,
                        Ross. This girl isn't the second
                        victim. This is "Jennifer Eight."

     And this is the second time they stop and stare at each other.

                        That old Wino on the heap wasn't
                        a suicide. He stumbled into some-
                        thing, saw something, and whoever
                        took him out knew how to fake it.

                                 ROSS
                        That isn't what you said before.

                                 BERLIN
                        I was wrong.

     Says it with remarkable humility considering he's the "expert."

                        I'm going in to see Citrine this
                        afternoon. Will you come with me?

                                 ROSS
                        You're not .. He's in hospital ..
                        He was trying out a new pair of
                        skis in his hallway. The phone
                        rings, and he goes for it, and
                        falls off. He must be the only
                        skier in Northern California to
                        break a leg in his living room.

     They arrive at the Chandler's with BERLIN in no mood to smile.

                                 BERLIN
                        You believe me, don't you?

                                 ROSS
                        What does it matter what I bel-
                        ieve? .. What you gotta worry
                        about is what Citrine believes ..

     But he doesn't really believe it. And doesn't enjoy saying no.

                        But I can't help you with this. We
                        can't go through the door with two
                        contentious issues, you with a mass
                        murderer, and me with the Mayor's
                        best friend. Do that, we lose both.
                        I'm sorry, Bro, you're on your own.

     41:  EXT.  TRINITY VALLEY.  DAY.  (HELICOPTER)

     The Mercedes and Music travel north. The latter made sinister
     by this landscape. Forest plunging into dark ravines. The sun
     colors the mountains red. But most of the valley is in shadow.

     42:  EXT.  DRIVE/PARKING.  SHASTA-TRINITY INSTITUTE.  DAY.

     A high wind in the chimneys. And the view is still from above.
     Like someone's looking down from the top of the building. And
     maybe someone is? BERLIN parks it and gets out. Stretches and
     walks towards the institute. He looks very small from up here.

     43:  INT.  GYMNASIUM.  INSTITUTE.  DAY.

     HELENA plays Elgar in an empty gymnasium. Sunlight streams in
     staining the air red. As BERLIN arrives doors on the opposite
     wall flap together like somebody just hurried out. Did he see
     someone? Perhaps not. The trees outside move a lot of shadows.

     Music stands. Vacant chairs. BERLIN takes one to watch her re-
     hearse. Realizes just how beautiful she is. And HELENA realiz-
     es someone is there. Before she can ask he identifies himself.

                                 HELENA
                        Have you been here long?

                                 BERLIN
                        No, just a minute or two .. I
                        knocked on your door - no one
                        home, so I followed the music ..

                                 HELENA
                        I'm sorry. I'll get my things.

                                 BERLIN
                        No problem. I'm not in a hurry.

     But she's already fussing about stuffing sheet music in a bag.

                        Matter of fact, I saw a little
                        restaurant place down the road.
                        Looked kinda pretty? I thought
                        maybe we could have some lunch?

     No answer but the answer is no. BERLIN finds her book for her.

                        Alright, whatever .. Was some-
                        one in here with you? When I
                        came in the door was flapping?

                                 HELENA
                        I don't think so .. No one
                        comes here at the weekends ..

     44:  INT.  STAIRCASE.  INSTITUTE.  DAY.

     The gale shouts its head off. The Camera looks down from above.
     Nothing to see except the stairwell and a hand on the banister.

                                 HELENA (O.S.)
                        I suppose I'm the worst
                        witness you've ever had?

                                 BERLIN (O.S.)
                        I gotta admit, you're one of
                        them. Just wish I knew what
                        you meant by a "hollow car?"

                                 HELENA (O.S.)
                        Well, some cars sound fat and
                        some cars sound thin, and this
                        kind of car sounded "hollow" ..

     Any moment now they turn a corner of the stairs into close-up.

                        Maybe it was a foreign car?
                        Our kinda cars sound "fat."

     The elevator is parked on this floor with its doors half open.

                        Are you sure you wanna see it?
                        It's another three floors up?

     Despite breathlessness he does. "How often does it break down?"

                        Oh, all the time. They keep
                        threatening to have it re-
                        placed, but they never will.

     45:  INT.  ATTIC APARTMENT.  INSTITUTE.  DAY.

     Gloomy windows and a wardrobe. BERLIN walks in leaving HELENA
     at the door. "I sat right there, on the bed." The bed is gone
     but why tell her? He checks the wardrobe. Guess what? Hangers.

                                 HELENA
                        If I came to the diner with
                        you, would you bring me back?

                                 BERLIN
                        Of course I would ..

     His smile deteriorates as he realizes she's "staring" at him.

                        What are you staring at, Hel-
                        ena? .. I mean .. I'm sorry ..

                                 HELENA
                        That's alright. You suddenly
                        reminded me of him .. He was
                        standing right where you are,
                        kind of breathless, like you.

     Nothing happening except the wind. Then a smile as she leaves.

                        I'll get my coat, wait
                        for you downstairs ..

     And he begins an exploration. Musty bathroom with old-fashion-
     ed fixtures. A tap leaking behind shower curtains. Nothing in
     the cabinet. Nothing under the sink. Six steps and he is in a
     kitchen. Finally finds something worth looking for. Tears the
     sack out of a vacuum cleaner. Discovers a knot of hair from a
     black dog. Simultaneously the door slams. Shock powers him in-
     to the sitting room in time to hear a key turning in the lock.
     Hits the door and shouts. Hears footsteps moving rapidly away.

     46:  INT.  RECEPTION.  INSTITUTE.  DAY.

     A huge Christmas poster advertises SHASTA-TRINITY ARTS/CRAFTS.
     HELENA sits in the deserted foyer reading Braille. The volume
     is the size of a phone directory. BERLIN appears via the main
     entrance. Windswept and wasted and surprised she's still here.

                                 BERLIN
                        I'm sorry, someone slammed the
                        door on me. I couldn't get out.

                                 HELENA
                        It was probably the wind.

     Hellava wind that turns a key! But he says nothing. Takes the
     book while she gets into her coat. She's obviously made an ef-
     fort. A change of clothes and her hair pinned up. But she has
     got the sweater on inside out and the label is under her chin.

                                 BERLIN
                        What are you reading?

                                 HELENA
                        Hamlet. Have you read it?

                                 BERLIN
                        No.

                                 HELENA
                        You should. It's wonderful.

     By now they're at the doors with BERLIN escorting her through.

     	47:  INT.  RESTAURANT/DINER.  TRINITY VALLEY.  DAY.

     Red brick walls and help yourself to salad. All but empty and
     their food is yet to arrive. BERLIN is clearly having a tough
     time with the conversation. Basically because there isn't any.

                                 BERLIN
                        .. I'll tell you what, if I prom-
                        ise to stop being a cop, will you
                        promise to stop being a witness?

     HELENA sits frozen like she's waiting for results of an X-ray.

                        I mean, we don't havta sit here
                        waiting for me to ask the next
                        question? You could ask one, too?

                                 HELENA
                        Are you wearing a uniform?

                                 BERLIN
                        No.

                                 HELENA
                        Oh.

                                 BERLIN
                        Well, I'm glad we got the conver-
                        sational side of lunch over with.

                                 HELENA
                        I'm sorry .. I don't like sitting
                        in the middle of a restaurant .. I
                        feel like everyone's looking at me ..

                                 BERLIN
                        There's no one "looking at you" ..
                        There's hardly anyone in here. The
                        only person looking at you, is me.

     And he likes what he's looking at. And maybe HELENA senses it.

                                 HELENA
                        Are you married?

                                 BERLIN
                        Was. But I don't like to talk about it.

                                 HELENA
                        You just asked me to ask you questions.

                                 BERLIN
                        I know, but you pick on the one time
                        in my life I like not to remember. I
                        was in the bad lands. Really not well.
                        It's something that happens to a lota
                        cops. We don't wanna talk about that.

                                 HELENA
                        "Thoughts that lie too deep for tears."

                                 BERLIN
                        Yeah, that'll do .. Is that "Hamlet?"

                                 HELENA
                        No, Wordsworth .. Do you like poetry?

     His attention is temporarily elsewhere. A Lunch Party just arr-
     ived. It's clear GOODRIDGE is profoundly unhappy to see BERLIN.

                                 BERLIN
                        I don't know, I haven't read much. I
                        don't think poetry's my kinda thing?

                                 HELENA
                        Do you pray?

                                 BERLIN
                        Pray?

                                 HELENA
                        You said, you were in the bad lands?

                                 BERLIN
                        No, I don't pray .. Had a dream once,
                        about God, just around the time I was
                        getting well .. He was a nasty lookin
                        little guy, moved into the apartment
                        right on topa me .. I said, don't you
                        listen to people's prayers?  He said,
                        prayers? Not often. They're Junk Mail.

     48:  INT.  MERCEDES SEDAN.  SHASTA-TRINITY INSTITUTE.  DAY.

     Big pines either side of the driveway. The Camera sits in the
     back more interested in the approaching institute than BERLIN.

                                 BERLIN
                        .. I got really sick of the street ..
                        so I went to school and became a
                        Scientific Services Officer, which
                        is basically a Scene of Crime Off-
                        icer. Then this came up, and I got
                        what they call a Lateral Transfer ..

     Pulls into a parking spot and the next sound is the hand brake.

                        I couldn't take another minute of
                        Los Angeles .. Felt like I'd said
                        sorry in every street in the city ..

                                 HELENA
                        Sorry?

                                 BERLIN
                        .. sorry your father, mother sis-
                        ter, whatever .. I couldn't take
                        another day of it .. Come on, I'm
                        gonna rob you of a cup of coffee ..

     49:  EXT/INT.  FIRE ESCAPE/APARTMENT.  INSTITUTE.  DUSK.

     BERLIN looks down from the fire escape. For the first time the
     place sounds busy. Cars arriving and doors slamming. Voices of
     Students coming back from the weekend. "Why were you out there?"
     HELENA waits inside and didn't realize he was back in the room.

                                 HELENA
                        Coz I wanted to feel the snow
                        on my face .. I think that's
                        when I heard her call him John?

     Time to go and both know it. Stale shadows and growing silence.

                        Is it snowing now?

                                 BERLIN
                        No. Getting dark though.

     And his eyes are searching her so hard she must be aware of it.

                        You think you'd know this man? If
                        he was in the room with you again?

                                 HELENA
                        You've already asked me that ..

     The silence is almost uncomfortable. BERLIN continues to stare.

                        Amber's dead, isn't she?

                                 BERLIN
                        Yes. I'm sorry.

     50:  EXT.  SUBURBAN STREET.  CITY OF EUREKA.  DAY.

     Pretty houses in a pretty little street. Hills in the back and
     sunshine out front. BERLIN pulls up in his Mercedes and does a
     bit of tie adjusting as he walks up a path and hits the chimes.
     This could only be MRS CITRINE. A budget smile and he's inside.

     51:  INT.  "STUDIO"/CONSERVATORY.  HOUSE.  DAY.

     Dozens of repulsive paintings.  A truly repulsive painting "By
     Numbers" of the Mona Lisa in progress. The color codes are com-
     pletely fucked up. CITRINE wears a wooly hat and hates walking
     on crutches. BERLIN picked a bad day to come in here with this.

                                 CITRINE
                        You're pushing this too hard. It's
                        like you want me to say stop? You
                        must know that's the way this is
                        going, John? There's other work to
                        do, why don't ya ease off a little?

                                 BERLIN
                        Coz this is a major & we're closer to
                        this bastard than anyone's ever been.

                                 CITRINE
                        Then where's the body? .. Where's
                        the body, and why's he hidden it?

                                 BERLIN
                        He hasn't hidden it. He never made
                        a hit this far north before, and
                        he never read a weather forecast ..
                        She's probably fifteen feet from
                        the highway, three feet under snow.

                                 CITRINE
                        Have you got a match on the bullet?

                                 BERLIN
                        No.

                                 CITRINE
                        Have you got a print from the hand?

                                 BERLIN
                        No, Sir.

                                 CITRINE
                        It could be anyone's hand. Illeg-
                        ally disposed of hospital debris ..

                                 BERLIN
                        It's her hand. Her scars. Her dog.
                        Her dog's shot. And she's missing.

                                 CITRINE
                        She's not "missing." Did she shout?
                        Did she scream? Did he coerce her?
                        No. She left of her own free will ..
                        And if she gets on a plane and goes
                        to Peru with the prick, she's still
                        not missing. You got no case, John.

                                 BERLIN
                        If you're not gonna hear me, Chief ..

                                 CITRINE
                        I have heard you. You just don't like
                        hearing me. You got this whole damned
                        thing outta proportion. I don't know
                        what you gotten used to in Los Angeles,
                        but I don't believe there's a Police
                        Chief, in this country, would put a
                        task force together for a body part ..

                                 BERLIN
                        We have a multiple homicide, Sir ..

                                 CITRINE
                        We have a body part in suspicious
                        circumstances - a tailor's dummy
                        wearing a brassiere - and a bill
                        for seventeen dollars for its wig!

     52:  INT.  CORRIDOR/ADMINISTRATION.  POLICE STATION.  DAY.

     BERLIN arrives at the station in the same mood he left Citrine.
     Heads for his room and runs into ROSS's stare. Problems on his
     plate too. He sits at his desk looking uncharacteristically an-
     xious. What ever he's drinking isn't tea. He finds a bottle of
     J&B in a drawer and walks toward Berlin's freshly slammed door.

     52:  INT.  CRIME LAB.  POLICE STATION.  DAY.

     The lab is stuffed with junk waiting his attention. (Dozens of
     common things made sinister by their labels and plastic sacks).
     ROSS delivers a dose of Scotch in a plastic cup. Pours himself
     another. Leans on a bench and gets into the pissed-off silence.

                                 ROSS
                        Did he shut you down?

                                 BERLIN
                        All but .. How you doing?

                                 ROSS
                        I dunno, I daren't go in there -
                        just about get her wired up, and
                        the fucking mayor walks in - mad
                        as hell - what are we doing fuck-
                        ing with his staff? We should be
                        out chasing major violators ..

                                 BERLIN
                        I wish he'd tell that to Citrine.

     He almost does the whiskey but reaches for chewing gum instead.

                        He thinks the kid shot the dog ..

     He looks at ROSS like what-are-you-looking-at-me-like-that-for?

                        He didn't.

                                 ROSS
                        Did I say he did?

                                 BERLIN
                        You looked like you did?

                                 ROSS
                        No, I think you'll find I looked like
                        he could have? By accident even? He's
                        up here spraying the scenery all day.

                                 BERLIN
                        He didn't shoot it, Ross. And
                        no way by accident. There's a
                        flash-burn. It was point-blank.

     SERATO walks in with a cigarette plugged into his ashen kisser.

                                 SERATO
                        Flying colors ...

                                 ROSS
                        Say you didn't say that, Angelo?

                                 SERATO
                        I said it.

                                 ROSS
                        Oh my God Mother's shit. Are we in it?

     54:  INT.  ANTI ROOM/INTERROGATION.  POLICE STATION.  DAY.

     This room and the interrogation room are linked with a one-way
     mirror. BERLIN looks through munching gum. EMERSON is 25 years
     old and many pounds of vexed flesh. But something about her ex-
     pression expects apology. SERATO paces the place chain-smoking.
     ROSS listens devastated as the EXPERT explains his lousy chart.

                                 EXPERT
                        This is the important one. She
                        gets a dead straight line, and
                        that's an exceptional reading ..

                                 SERATO
                        .. this is the stupidest thing
                        we ever done. Fucking Citrine's
                        gonna fire one of us for this ..

                                 ROSS
                        I can't believe it. I just
                        know she someway busted it.

                                 EXPERT
                        This is an honest girl. She
                        couldn't lie if she tried ..

                                 BERLIN
                        Is she lying, Ross?

     For a moment there is an intense trust between ROSS and BERLIN.

                                 ROSS
                        Yes.

     Alright fuck it. Let's go for broke. BERLIN grabs the read out.
     Fueled on residual anger he vanishes out the door. ROSS is fir-
     st at the mirror to see him reappear in the interrogation room.

     55:  INT.  INTERROGATION ROOM.  POLICE STATION.  DAY.

     The polygraph machine looks like state of the art. A table and
     two chairs. BERLIN takes one and sits opposite EMERSON. She at-
     tempts a smile but he kills it with the intensity of his stare.

                                 BERLIN
                        My name's Sergeant John Berlin.

     And the time is his. He knows what he's doing. And she doesn't.

                        I been a policeman 17 years: 16
                        years 9 months of which with the
                        L.A.P.D. I witnessed literally
                        hundreds of lie-detector tests,
                        and I never seen one like this?

                                 EMERSON
                        What d'ya mean, Sergeant?

                                 BERLIN
                        Well, look at it. Look at this
                        line? That's the important one.
                        Dead straight down the page. No-
                        body gets a dead straight down
                        the page. Even our expert says
                        a dead straight's "exceptional."

     All he's doing is telling her truth. Up to her to interpret it.

                        Thought you might wanna comment?

     A tongue slides through the lipstick like something being born.

                                 EMERSON
                        I wasn't actually lying, Officer.

     And suddenly the only thing holding her chops up is Max Factor.
     He's got her on the roll now and all it needs is one more push.

                                 BERLIN
                        You busted the box, lady! You flunk-
                        ed it .. You lied about things you
                        didn't need to lie about .. The only
                        truthful statement you made's your
                        name .. Your name is Carol Emerson?

     The quivering lip and flooding eyes amalgamate into a horrible
     sort of groan. She's bellied up and anxious to spill her beans.
     BERLIN better get through the door fast because he might laugh.

                        You tell one more lie, you're go-
                        ing in a cell. Sergeant Ross is
                        coming in to take your statement.

     56:  EXT.  ROSS'S BOAT.  HUMBOLDT BAY.  EUREKA.  DAY.

     A wave atomizes and comes down like silver champagne. HELENA &
     BERLIN hang on the prow of the boat with the ocean rushing bel-
     ow. Another wave and more spray for HELENA. She turns like get-
     ting sea in your face is the best invention ever. Oilskins sat-
     urated and her hair streaming and she knows he's loving it too.

     57:  INT.  WHEELHOUSE.  BOAT.  DAY.

     Sunshine & spray on the windshield. ROSS at the wheel with MAR-
     GIE next to him. Eyes on BERLIN & HELENA playing like children.

                                 MARGIE
                        Such a shame .. She's
                        a really sweet kid ..

                                 ROSS
                        She's a doll. But I wish he
                        hadn't brought her out here.

     Stairs descend to a cabin and ROSS interrupts himself to shout.

                        Bobby, what happened to that
                        beer? Rule one, is you don't
                        diddle around with a witness.

                                 MARGIE
                        He's happy, darlin ..

                                 ROSS
                        I'm sure he is. But gettin in-
                        to the "element" is a bad idea.

     BOBBY clatters up the stairs clutching a six pack of Budweiser.

                        Tell em I'm going up the coast
                        a way, get out of this weather.

     BOBBY exits the wheelhouse and walks their eyes back to HELENA.

                                 MARGIE (O.S.)
                        Except for the hair color,
                        she looks just like Suzanne?

                                 ROSS (O.S.)
                        Well, that's who she is.
                        Cept she can't run away.

     58:  EXT.  FISHING DECK ABOVE WHEELHOUSE.  BOAT.  DAY.

     Wind over and sea content and anchored about a mile from shore.
     Smoke from a dying barbecue and Nat King Cole croons "Unforget-
     able." ROSS sports shades and sits staring down the line. Some-
     one plays lousy guitar and he shifts eyes into the well of the
     boat. HELENA teaches BOBBY to play chords. Hardly worth the ef-
     fort but they're enjoying it. BERLIN looks down from the oppos-
     ite side of the deck. His gaze interrupted by MARGIE "You want
     another Coke, honey?" Sure he does and her eyes travel to ROSS.

                                 MARGIE
                        You want something, darling?

                                 ROSS
                        I wouldn't mind another B.E.E.R.

     In code so BERLIN won't understand. But he and ROSS swap grins.

                        How much longer you on that diet?

                                 BERLIN
                        I'm doing it by the day ...

     MARGIE climbs the stairs with drinks and drinks a beer herself.
     Popped cans change the subject. This seems like a question BER-
     LIN doesn't really want to ask & MARGIE doesn't want to answer.

                        How's your little sister?

                                 MARGIE
                        She's in Europe ..

                                 BERLIN
                        Working?

     Clearly a sensitive subject and ROSS decides the truth is best.

                                 ROSS
                        She married some English prick.

                                 MARGIE
                        He's not that bad of a guy ..?

                                 ROSS
                        Got a handshake like a
                        partially excited penis.

     The joke doesn't reach BERLIN. MARGIE's hand is on his shoulder.

                                 MARGIE
                        Her loss, darlin ..

     And she heads for the lower deck. A sweet smile as she descends.

                        Anyway, you're doing O.
                        K. She's a sweet heart.

     And also playing the guitar "In My Life." And she does it well.

                                 ROSS
                        Why's she blind, Bro?

                                 BERLIN
                        Car accident.

     Slow banging of something swaying. And this exchange goes slow.

                        Whole family wiped out.

                                 ROSS
                        No shit.

     A bleeper goes on one of the lines and ROSS twists in his seat.

                        Strap me in. Here comes another.

     And he winds in yet another three quarters of a pound Mackerel.

                        Worst day's fishing I ever had ..

                                 BERLIN
                        It's been a great day.

     ROSS dexterously extracts the hook with serious eyes on BERLIN.

                                 ROSS
                        You just go easy, Brother ...
                              (Looks at fish)
                        Alright, we're all goin home.

     59:  EXT.  CAR PARK AT BEACH.  DUSK.

     Darkness in about an hour. Wide over the car park. Sand dunes
     surround it. Practically deserted of cars. Headlights snap on
     focusing attention on a station wagon exchange of good-byes.

                                 HELENA (V.O.)
                        I really liked Margie ..

     Silhouettes with exaggerated shadows walk across the car park.

                        What does she do?

                                 BERLIN (V.O.)
                        She runs a kind of hair dress-
                        ing and you know, beauty salon ..

                                 HELENA (V.O.)
                        Have you known her long?

                                 BERLIN (V.O.)
                        I was married to her sister ..

     The angle changes and is closer now. HELENA has taken his arm.

                        You don't ask what I'm like?

                                 HELENA
                        I know what you're like ..

                                 BERLIN
                        How d'you know what I'm like?

                                 HELENA
                        Ross told me.

                                 BERLIN
                        Really? What did he say?

                                 HELENA
                        He said you're quite chubby.
                        And you have a nervous tick.

                                 BERLIN
                        He said that? What else did
                        he say?

                                 HELENA
                        Just your age.

                                 BERLIN
                        Which is what?

                                 HELENA
                        Fifty-seven .. I don't mind ..

     BERLIN is more amused than annoyed. They arrive at the car and
     his suggestion is met with an appropriate response from HELENA.

                                 BERLIN
                        You wanna drive? C'mon we're
                        in a car park, miles from any-
                        where .. There's nothing arou-
                        nd but nothing and sand dunes ..

     "I can't drive a car." Doesn't like cars. But he's not hearing.

                        C'mon it'll be fun. You can
                        drive me around in circles ..

     No lady ever had a driving lesson like this before. BERLIN all
     but sits in her seat. Arm on the back of it. Hand on the wheel.
     For a split second they're doing 60. Now they're doing about 4.

     The Mercedes spirals in widening circles. Instructions and enc-
     ouragement from BERLIN .. O.K. .. Straight now .. The Mercedes
     straightens and heads through the dunes. "It's a big car park?"

                        We're going along a little track.

     HELENA may like driving but she doesn't like the sound of that.

                        It's O.K. It's not a public road.

     Headlights behind them approach quickly. Disappear and reappear
     as they follow the geography of the dunes. BERLIN only now bec-
     omes aware of them. one more dip and they slam in. Her anxiety
     is misinterpreted. He takes the wheel. No problem. Let him pass.
     The vehicle is right up behind them. As it overtakes HELENA is
     scared. And still scared even though BERLIN has stopped the car.

                        It's alright, I'm sorry. It was
                        my fault, it wasn't a good idea.

                                 HELENA
                        That was the "Hollow Car," John.

     Just time to see tail lights of a van disappearing in the gloom.

                                 BERLIN
                        A Volkswagen van? Are you sure?

     60: INT.  LIVING ROOM.  BERLIN'S HOUSE.  NIGHT.

     Rain lashes the windows. But a lot of improvements inside. New
     paint and now carpet. Not a lot of furniture but it looks nice
     enough. There's even a fire in the grate. BERLIN sits at a tab-
     le on the phone. The Voice he's hearing will [talk in brackets]

                                 BERLIN [Phone]
                        .. [is it a two door, slide door, a
                        what?] I don't know [Well, you gotta
                        get closer than just a V.W. van. You-
                        're talking maybe 10/15 thousand veh-
                        icles?] What happens if you just run
                        the name "John" against all of them?

     Heads for a sofa. Paperback of "Hamlet." TV on without sound.

                        [Frankly, that isn't gonna do you any
                        good. You'll be knocking on doors all
                        over the state. You gotta request tho-
                        se "Jennifer" files - maybe something
                        in them, give us some kinda reference?]

     Christmas ads interrupt the movie. BERLIN sighs in frustration.
     Starts doodling on the paperback. Shakespeare acquires glasses.

                        I can't request anything right now ..
                        push one more inch, I lose the lot ..
                        [Well, listen, I'll run the Bay Area
                        for you. But if you want a print-out
                        of every John in California with a V.
                        W. van, that's gotta be official. I'm
                        sorry] .. That's O.K. Thank you, Dan ..

     61:  INT.  CHIEF'S OFFICE.  POLICE STATION.  DAY.

     A painting of Ronald Reagan fills the screen. So awful it's al-
     most impressive. Next to it is a formal photograph of the City
     Mayor (Mr Heineman) . BERLIN continues to wait with eyes switch-
     ing to a picture of the Taj Mahal. "I love to paint." He turns
     as CITRINE walks in. "It's not great art, but I change the col-
     ors." Heads for his desk and sits dispensing with the crutches.

                                 CITRINE
                        I'm shutting you down on
                        this "blind thing," John.

                                 BERLIN
                        Is that my punishment for
                        embarrassing Mr Heineman?

                                 CITRINE
                        Don't underestimate me .. the
                        Mayor's pissed - but that's
                        nothing to do with this - sit
                        down - How many times have you
                        been up at that institute?

                                 BERLIN
                        Three or four.

                                 CITRINE
                        I'm talking, outside the girl?

                                 BERLIN
                        Once.

                                 CITRINE
                        Got a letter from this Goodridge guy?
                        Says, you're upsetting his students?

                                 BERLIN
                        That's bullshit,

                                 CITRINE
                        He says, you freaked one of em out?
                                 (Reading the letter)
                        "Asking a newly blind kid if he can
                        'see,' is both cruel, and dangerous" ..

     He floats the letter across the desk and hears the explanation.

                                 BERLIN
                        I never asked if he could "see." I
                        just asked one or two of the stud-
                        ents if they remembered anything?

                                 CITRINE
                        And did they?

                                 BERLIN
                        No.

     CITRINE rubs his forehead in preparation to change the subject,

                                 CITRINE
                        I'm not a nasty man, John, I'm a nice
                        man .. I get a lot of Christmas cards
                            (a lot of cards on the wall)
                        .. and I'm getting a lot of complaints.
                        The guy you replaced was something you-
                        're not - a lazy sonovabitch - but the
                        reality is, I was getting a faster ser-
                        vice outta Popeye than I am outta you ..
                        I can't allow this to continue, John ..

     If there was any argument to be had BERLIN would be arguing it.

                        I don't want you up at that institute
                        again .. and I'm flat-out about that ..
                        I'm sorry, I know it means something
                        to you - you can go tell your witness
                        if you feel you must - but as far as
                        you're concerned, the case is closed ..

     62:  EXT.  CITY STREET.  CITY OF EUREKA.  NIGHT.

     Colored lights strung across the street. Symptoms of Christmas
     everywhere. Store windows full of trashy decorations and every-
     thing soluable in mist. ROSS and BERLIN develop out of it like
     Polaroids. Their destination is a dingy looking downstairs bar.

                                 BERLIN
                        God, it pisses me off, Ross.

                                 ROSS
                        No God, Brother. If there was
                        a God, asses wouldn't be at
                        the perfect height for kicking.

     63:  INT.  "ANGELA'S BAR."  CITY OF EUREKA.  NIGHT.

     This is the local Copper's bar. It's full of cigarette smoke &
     Coppers. Laughter & sugar music. "I'll Be Seeing You." "Sentim-
     ental Journey." Either one of these is playing.  Familiar Faces
     among those drinking at the bar. The forty-two-year-old BLONDE
     serving them is busy. She is in possession of very big breasts.

                                 VENABLES
                        Can I buy you a beer, Sergeant?

                                 ROSS
                        Don't try and ingratiate your-
                        self with me, Venables. But just
                        this once I'll have a Heineken ..
                        and John here will have one, too.

     ROSS pokes VENABLES a surreptitious 20 with eyes on the BLONDE.
     Right now she's far end of the bar delivering a beer to BISLEY.

                        (Look at those Amazingly Bos-
                        oms) You wanna beer, King Jay?

                                 TAYLOR
                        No, I gotta go .. I'm nights ..

     TAYLOR gets a last cough out of a cigarette before stubbing it.

                                 BLATTIS
                        Gimme a ride?

                                 TAYLOR
                        Sure ..

     And he's already gathered his shit and halfway into his jacket.

                        How's that hand-job comin along, John?

     BERLIN makes a gesture he'd have trouble understanding himself.

                                 ROSS
                        Hey, we're not talking "talk" tonight.

                                 TAYLOR
                        No one's gonna make that Gent. Six
                        months investigation, & the nearest
                        we got, we thought he was a sailor.

                                 BERLIN
                        A sailor?

     By now TAYLOR is moving through the crush of faces behind them.

                                 TAYLOR
                        Yeah, in and outta Frisco on
                        the big boats .. Every lead
                        we had went right out to sea ..
                        Night, night, Freddy T .. John ..

                                 BERLIN
                        How come he's suddenly so forth-
                        coming? I'd like to kick him right
                        in the ass. If he'd discussed it
                        with me, I mighta gotten somewhere ..

                                 ROSS
                        Stop it.

                                 BERLIN
                        I never knew about the sailor the-
                        ory, Ross. He might have that one
                        little thing I need in his files?

                                 ROSS
                        John, stop it. The case is on its ass,
                        you're closed. (Reaches for a menu.)
                        C'mon, let it go for once .. Have a
                        drink. C'mon, relax, drink your beer ..

     And just that one moment of insanity as BERLIN downs it in one.

                        Alright .. Let's have some wine ..

     64:  INT.  BOOTH.  "ANGELA'S BAR."  NIGHT.

     A shabby booth with black and whites of the two unrecognizable
     Celebrities who ate here. Hamburgers are almost over and a bot-
     tle of wine almost drunk. Both look tanked and especially ROSS.

                                 ROSS
                        You gotta stop calling Los Angeles ..
                        You're dragging L.A. around with you
                        like an addiction.  Look at the shit
                        you're putting yourself through? For
                        what? For nothing, I know it, I been
                        there. Remember me? Up to my asshole
                        in anger, living off the vitamins in
                        cigarettes?  If there's a body under
                        the snow, fuck it. Let somebody else
                        worry about it. You gotta accept you
                        stopped living in that world, & try
                        and give yourself a break in this ..

                                 BERLIN
                        Just makes to so God damned mad ..

                                 ROSS
                        You're a fucking great policeman, but
                        give yourself a break. You're here 5
                        minutes, you find yourself a fucking
                        homicide? .. Not many people could do
                        that in a place like this .. And you
                        gotta admit, there's a lot of shaky
                        areas in this case? .. I mean, stop
                        me if I'm going up the wrong nostril ..

     Waving his empty at the bar ROSS communicates need for another.

                        How d'you know this girl isn't lying
                        to you .. Not lying as such, but mak-
                        ing up stuff to keep you coming back?

                                 BERLIN
                        She wasn't lying about the van.

                                 ROSS
                        Alright, she wasn't lying about the
                        van. But it could have been any van?
                        Any little foreign diesel? .. She's
                        blind, Bro .. It's sad .. She's pro-
                        bably lonely, and you're a nice guy
                        to have around .. But you're getting
                        far too far into the element, Brother ..

                                 BERLIN
                        Sure.

                                 ROSS
                        You don't need me to tell you what hap-
                        pens when you get emotionally involved?

                                 BERLIN
                        Alright, enough, Ross. You'll
                        bring on my "Nervous Tick" ...

     65:  INT.  ADMINISTRATION.  POLICE STATION.  NIGHT.

     Very late and the only light comes from coloured bulbs pulsing
     on a Christmas tree. Apparent BERLIN has had too much to drink.
     Makes it to his desk and shuffles at the messages. One is just
     about important enough to get a close-up. "TIME 18:52: SUBJECT:
     A MAN CALLED DAN STANLEY TELEPHONED:  SAYS THERE ARE 109 JOHNS
     WITH VOLKSWAGEN VANS IN BAY AREA: WILL TELETYPE INFO THIS P.M."

     66:  INT.  CRIME LAB.  POLICE STATION.  NIGHT.

     BERLIN finishes typing something. Tears it out and seals it in
     an envelope. Shirt sleeves and yawns. He slumps in the chair &
     stares at "Jennifer 8." Fuck this for a Friday night. He's had
     enough of it. Grabs several envelopes and turns out the lights.

     67:  INT.  ADMIN/OFFICE.  POLICE STATION.  NIGHT.

     BERLIN emerges from one office and heads for another. J.K. Tay-
     lor on the door. Delivers the envelope and an his way out when 
     something detains him. Lights on the tree strobe through venit-
     ian blinds. Illuminate bits and pieces of rattan. Plus a board
     covered in Christmas cards and a pair of steel filing cabinets.

     Maybe motivated by the booze? But a desk drawer is open almost
     before he realizes it and he searches for a key. Nothing but a
     bunch of business cards and family snaps. Taylor with his Moth-
     er Taylor with his Sister (red hair like him) and Taylor with
     his Dog. The drawer slams and one underneath opens.  Same flot-
     sam of personal junk. Scotch Tape and paper clips and more bus-
     iness cards. A bottle of tablets and salad of loose ammo. Fuck
     all else and he closes the drawer. But what's this? A cane let-
     ter rack at the rear of the desk where he finds a pair of keys.

     Excitement lasts as long as it takes to try them. Don't fit ei-
     ther lock. Now he's staring at the shadows with nothing moving
     but thoughts. A few moments more and he's heading for the door.

     68:  INT.  OFFICE.  POLICE STATION.  NIGHT.

     Massive close-up of the lock. A weird looking tool goes in and
     another follows it. This bastard ain't easy even for an expert.
     The frame widens to reveal BERLIN. He shuffles picks in a wall-
     et on top of the cabinet. Was that a noise somewhere? He stops
     to listen. wipes cold sweat away. Only thieves and foxes about.

     A final twist and the lock delivers. Several dozen manilla col-
     ored files from which to choose. A pair of folders titled Jenn-
     ifer travel to the desk. The first is full of press-cuttings &
     some gruesome looking snaps. Next file and this one looks more
     interesting? A notebook full of random questions/answers/comm-
     ents. A list of ships and sailing times. "MUST FOLLOW THIS UP"

     Underlined twice. "CAN'T OVER ESTIMATE IMPORTANCE." Also under-
     lined. Lists of numbers. Street numbers? Vehicle numbers? What-
     ever they might be is history because the neon just flashed on.
     TAYLOR stands in the doorway. The surprise is mutual. The play
     one-sided. This is already TAYLOR's game. Smokes his cigarette.
     BERLIN is up to elbows in the jam jar and up to him to explain.

                                 BERLIN
                        .. feel like I'm getting close to
                        this guy .. and all the time, feel
                        like I'm sharpening a pencil with
                        a broken load .. I'm sorry, King J ..

                                 TAYLOR
                        What are you looking for?

                                 BERLIN
                        Vehicle references.

                                 TAYLOR
                        Wrong cabinet.

     He gestures to the right one. BERLIN feels about 2 inches tall.

                        I'm gonna get some coffee. When you
                        finish in here, maybe you'll let me
                        know? .. I got a report to type up ..

     As he exits he tosses a bunch of keys. They crash uselessly on-
     to the desk. BERLIN looks like he couldn't get a fuck with mud.

     69:  EXT.  ROAD.  TRINITY VALLEY.  DAY.

     The mood is low as it goes. And so is the angle. Ultra low beh-
     ind the car. Just road and a blur of tires. The frame widens &
     the Mercedes fills it. Brake lights on as it descends the hill.

     70:  INT.  TRINITY VALLEY/ROAD.  DAY.

     BERLIN in big close-up. His face like the Music. Here come the
     gates of the Institute. As he turns in he stamps the brakes. A
     van veers past him. Nothing special about it except it's a V.W.
     He watches it vanish up the hill with other things on his mind.

     71:  INT.  CORRIDOR.  INSTITUTE.  DAY.

     Christmas vacations and the building sounds deserted. BERLIN's
     foot steps might be the only sound in the place. They stop and
     a bell rings. Ho tries to assemble sox* kind of appropriate ex-
     pression. But as soon as she opens the door it's obsolete. HEL-
     ENA looks pretty as flowers & delighted he's here. She reaches
     for his hands. And every new second makes it a tougher goodbye.

     72:  INT.  APARTMENT.  INSTITUTE.  DAY.

     Oh Jesus look at this. She prepared him a surprise dinner. And
     she looks so happy about it. A pathetic little table with cand-
     les and Forget-Me-Nots and can of Diet Coke by his plate. He's
     barely through the door and goodbye is already in deep trouble.

                                 HELENA
                        I wanted it to be a surprise.

     BERLIN's face gets ready for something he doesn't say. Why did
     she have to do this? And why didn't he tell her over the phone?

     73:  INT.  APARTMENT.  INSTITUTE.  DUSK.

     A Schubert Sonata in the background. Candles low and the atmos-
     phere junk. Evening already in the room and it feels like time
     to go. But first he's gotta toll her something he doesn't want
     to hear himself. "Would you like me to make some fresh coffee?"

                                 BERLIN
                        I have to talk to you, Helena.

                                 HELENA
                        I know.

                                 BERLIN
                        You know? How do you know?

                                 HELENA
                        Coz you hardly said a word
                        since you got here. But you been
                        thinking pretty loud ..

     She stands and collects the cups and gets halfway with a smile.

                        I'll make some more coffee.

     74:  INT. KITCHEN.  APARTMENT.  DUSK.

     A hiss of running water. Close on the kettle. Close on the tap.
     She knows what he's going to say. And now she's alone her face
     doesn't mask her feelings. She's missing him already. But does-
     n't know why. Simply knows she doesn't want him to say goodbye.

     She reaches high into a cupboard. Her shirt stretches over her
     breasts. Christ this girl has a great figure. Carting hair out
     of her eyes she returns to the sink. For an instant she's star-
     ing out of the window and right into somebody's face. Tall and
     weird looking. But just a glimpse before he moves rapidly away.

     75:  INT.  APARTMENT.  DUSK.

     BERLIN has moved to the sofa. A shaft of dead sunlight crosses
     the apartment. HELENA comes in making a brave face of it. Does-
     n't realize he's moved. "I'm here, Helena." And she smiles and
     changes direction. Puts the coffee tray on a table in front of
     him. No music now and all sounds in close-up. Close on the lip
     of the coffee pot as she pours. Close on the cup she gives him. 
     Everything close in Helena's world or her world wouldn't exist.

     76:  EXT.  (P.O.V. FROM FIRE ESCAPE)  INSTITUTE.  DUSK.

     Not a lot to look at but the man is looking in. From his P.O.V.
     he's fortunate. HELENA sits facing him but BERLIN has his back
     to the window. This sort of surveillance is always ominous and
     here is no exception. BERLIN's explanation comes with occasion-
     al use of hands. HELENA suddenly smiles so it can't be all bad.

     They stand and BERLIN reaches for his coat. HELENA crosses the
     room. Finds her Forget-Me-Nots and now they're his at the door.
     As he takes them he takes her hand. Kisses her finger tips and
     can't avoid embracing her. They kiss like awkward kids bumping
     noses. Finally part and disappear into the dark of the hallway.

     77:  INT.  ELEVATOR/CORRIDOR.  INSTITUTE.  DUSK.

     BERLIN is already in the elevator. Resists doors determined to
     separate them. They shunt in and out perpetually informing him
     he's on the 4th floor. "I'll call, O.K." She nods and releases
     his hand. He watches her walk all the way back up the corridor.

     78:  INT.  MERCEDES SEDAN.  TRINITY VALLEY.  NIGHT.

     Headlights follow the meandering road. Another bend and lights
     in the distance. In seconds he's passing the Diner. Still open
     with cars out front including the white Volkswagen that nearly
     busted his fender. He's not gonna stop. Then decides to. Makes
     a U and pulls in. Parks a couple of vehicles away from the van.

     79:  INT.  KITCHEN/LIVING ROOM/BEDROOM.  APARTMENT.  NIGHT.

     HELENA finishes the dishes. Stacks a last plate and closes the
     cupboard. Heads back into the living room. Something about the
     apartment doesn't sound right? She follows the noise through a
     door into a bedroom. Curtains dance in the darkness and behind
     them she finds a half open window. Curious because she doesn't
     remember leaving it open? Secures it and silences the icy wind.

     80:  EXT.  VOLKSWAGEN VAN/CAR PARK.  DINER.  NIGHT.

     BERLIN checks the driver's door. Locked and he explores with a
     pencil-flashlight. Moves to a slide door at the side. Simultan-
     eously the door to the Diner opens releasing a quartet of midd-
     le-aged Drunks. He dissolves while they bullshit around. Laugh-
     ter in chill air. The Comedian of the night keeps himself amus-
     ed. Jokes about getting into the wrong car with the wrong wife.
     BERLIN isn't laughing "C'mon, you drunken fuck. Get outta here."

     81:  INT/EXT.  VOLKSWAGEN VAN/CAR PARK.  DINER.  NIGHT.

     A slide door rolls open and BERLIN peers in. Full of furniture
     and cardboard crates stenciled "TRINITY INSTITUTE - CRAFT DEPT."
     Worth the try but forget it. This bastard obviously has legit-
     imate business at the institute. Takes a last poke around with
     the light. Spots something red. A cigarette butt caked in lip-
     stick. But what's this white stuff? Some kind of powder spills
     from a capsule crushed in the door rails. He picks it up for a
     look and gets a bad one from behind! "Whatta you doing, Mister?"

     BERLIN finds himself facing an irate looking Woman in her 20's.
     A lot of red hair and freckles. But definitely more frightened
     than angry. His Police Department badge is an instant sedative.
     Gives her some crap about thefts from vehicles round here. She
     should keep her doors locked. She smiles and thought they were.

                                 BERLIN
                        Got your driver's license?

     She hands it across and he inspects it coz that's what cops do.

                        I noticed you coming outta the
                        institute. You up there a lot?

                                 WOMAN
                        Oh, it was you that
                        nearly ran into me?

                                 BERLIN
                        No, it was you that nearly ran
                        into me .. You up there a lot?

                                 WOMAN
                        I guess, more than usual this
                        time of the year. My mother & I
                        run an Arts & Crafts center, we
                        buy a lot from the institutes ..

                                 BERLIN
                        Where's your store, Amanda?

                                 WOMAN
                        Oakland.

     Hands the license back and is already heading for his Mercedes.

                                 BERLIN
                        Next pit-stop, you make sure your
                        doors are locked.  Merry Christmas.

     82:  INT.  BATHROOM/LIVING ROOM.  APARTMENT.  NIGHT.

     If there's moonlight that's the only light. Nothing to see but
     a pair of large taps. Nothing to hear but a bath filling. Then
     something starts bleeping. It's a liquid-level-indicator activ-
     ated by rising water. A hand searches for taps. Shuts them off
     and silences the indicator. The frame expands to reveal HELENA.

     She moves to a hand basin. Finds a brush and fixes hair. Finds
     a clip and pins it up. Close as she kicks off shoes. Pantyhose
     descend on top of them. Walks into the living room unbuttoning
     her shirt. Vanishes into the bedroom and the Camera waits. Ret-
     urns with towels and the Camera follows back into the bathroom.

     A creaking hinge as she closes the door. A dressing gown hangs
     on a hook. She reaches for it and turns and virtually bumps in-
     to the Sonovabitch. Dressed in black and stealthy as a cat. He
     retreats a pace deeper into the darkness. Just enough light to
     see he wears glasses. And just enough light to see her undress.

     HELENA unzips her skirt. Slides it down her lags. Drapes it on
     a chair. Removes her shirt and hangs it on the back. She wears
     a white brassiere and panties. And no apologies for repetition.
     This is a fantastic body. She checks water temperature. Either
     too hot or too cold. Either way a tap goes on. Now she reaches
     behind her back. Unclips her bra. Gets hit with dazzling light.

     The Intruder is taking photographs. And if this is his turn-on
     he's in paradise. She stands in front of him in total oblivion.
     Her panties join clothes on the chair. Nov she's naked and now
     another picture. Again the bathroom detonates with white light.

     His face is concealed by the camera. But this bastard is about
     to run out of luck. Moves in as she silences the tap. Suddenly
     a lot of silence about. HELENA twists in panic. She just heard
     something? Didn't she just hear something? Is somebody in here?
     Fear kills her scream. She hits at the darkness. But he's gone.

     83:  INT.  LIVING ROOM/KITCHEN.  BERLIN'S HOUSE.  DAY.

     Big close on telephone ringing. No one home except the machine
     and Camera. The former answers on behalf of Berlin [John, it's
     me .. please call me .. I left two messages at the police stat-
     ion .. they said you weren't there .. please, please, call me].
     The camera moves on. Breakfast remains on the table. Newspaper
     still in its wraps. Out the window a bonfire rages in the yard.

     84:  EXT.  YARD.  HOUSE.  DAY.

     BERLIN clears rubbish from the garage. Grime and sweat and the
     effort's got him breathless. Heaves another armful on the fire.
     The phone starts ringing again. This time he decides to answer.

     85:  INT.  CORRIDOR/ADMIN.  POLICE STATION.  DAY.

     BERLIN in a hurry to get there. Footsteps tell the story. Fast
     up a corridor and through a door. Faces look as he crosses the
     department. SECRETARIES and BISLEY and ROSS. But only one face
     of interest. TAYLOR turns halfway through lighting a cigarette.
     "Are you outta your fucken mind?" TAYLOR says nothing. "If any-
     thing happens to that girl, I'm gonna break your fucking back."

                                 TAYLOR
                        Just easy on the words you're
                        putting in my face, Sergeant ..

                                 ROSS
                        Whass going on here?

     A question practically every expression in the place is asking.

                                 TAYLOR
                        His blind friend got "attacked."
                        Angelo went up there, and some-
                        how, it got itself in the paper.

                                 BERLIN
                        You put it in there.

                                 TAYLOR
                        I may have said some-
                        thing. I don't recall.

                                 BERLIN
                        Don't lie, Taylor. I just had
                        this Blattis guy on the phone
                        asking me for a comment - you
                        gave him the whole damned case!

                                 TAYLOR
                        Alright, I gave him the case? ..
                        So the case is closed, so what?

     His indifference inflames BERLIN. Smashes the newspaper at him.

                                 BERLIN
                        So read it! You just hung
                        a target around her neck!

                                 TAYLOR
                        Bullshit.

                                 BERLIN
                        Don't you know nothing about this
                        guy? He reads the newspapers. Col-
                        lects the cuttings. When are they
                        gonna find her? Now he's reading
                        Helena Robertson's name, phrased
                        like she's a fucking witness. You
                        couldn't have done anything more
                        stupid if you'd sat down & tried ..

                                 TAYLOR
                        Hey, c'mon, country boys, let's
                        all line up and hear the expert.

                                 BERLIN
                        Just walk away from me, Taylor ..

     Now the volume is going up. Now the whole department is silent.

                                 TAYLOR
                        You think you're the only guy
                        ever worked a homicide? I was
                        a big-city cop too. And I bust-
                        ed the clock on fucken Jennifer.
                        I know more about this man than
                        you'll over know - and that's
                        how I know it ain't him - you-
                        're investigating a soap-opera ..

                                 ROSS
                        Alright, guys. We stop this now.

                                 TAYLOR
                        He tells her, "bye-bye," and she
                        gets "attacked." Well, give me a
                        fucking break! There is no "Ser-
                        ial Killer." Stick her name up in
                        neon, there's still no Serial kil-
                        ler! And I ain't the only one say-
                        ing it. Everyone in this building
                        is saying it. And I mean everyone.

     "Everyone" means ROSS. BERLIN looks at him. And his gaze hurts.

                                 ROSS
                        Shut up, King Jay ..

                                 TAYLOR
                        No, c'mon, Freddy, let's have this
                        out & over. You know what everyone
                        thinks? They think you're making a
                        case coz you found yourself a nice
                        piece of ass. And no one's blaming
                        you for it, I hear she's worth the
                        flowers. But don't come in here get-
                        ting holy over us. Sure I put it in
                        the paper. Coz I wanted to stop this
                        bullshit. I don't want you drunk out-
                        ta your head searching my office ag-
                        ain. it's pissing me, & everyone off.

                                 BERLIN
                        You don't know what you done, Taylor.

                                 TAYLOR
                        If, your friend from San Diego was
                        up here, and thought for one out of
                        two fucken seconds, she was a danger
                        to him, he'da taken her out weeks ago ..

     His cigarette is already stubbed and he's already walking away.

                        Why don't you get yourself a dict-
                        ionary? Look up the word "witness?"

                                 BERLIN
                        I know what a "witness" is.

                                 TAYLOR
                        Well, her, it ain't. That bitch
                        is blind as a blonde fucken bat.

     A big mistake Mister Taylor. Mister Berlin suddenly turns into
     Harrison Ford. TAYLOR slams into filing cabinets right next to
     the Christmas tree. Gets BERLIN's forearm under his throat and
     fucking lucky not to get the knuckles in his gut. Both men are 
     heaving. No volume necessary in this room of paralyzed silence.

                                 BERLIN
                        I'm gonna do something you never
                        did, Taylor. I'm gonna catch this
                        bastard. And when I do, he's gon-
                        na find out just how good a "wit-
                        ness" she is .. Meanwhile, you be
                        aware of me - coz I wish you ill ..

     BERLIN moves away and the silence is brutal. Nothing happening
     but bad vibes. ROSS and BERLIN exchange glances, And this shit
     is really bad. BERLIN vanishes into his lab and the door slams.

     86:  INT.  CRIME LAB.  POLICE STATION.  DAY.

     BERLIN and his Dummy wearing a bra and his photographs and his
     rage are all alone. And that's how they wanna be. But the door
     opens and here is ROSS. Have to be a friend to survive in here.

                                 BERLIN
                        Nothing you gotta say do I wanna hear
                        right now. So save yourself saying it.

                                 ROSS
                        I'm not in here to apologize, John.
                        I told you what was gonna happen &
                        it's happened? "Good-bye, Princess,"
                        & the same night she gets attacked?
                        That's a tough one to swallow, Bro?

                                 BERLIN
                        I'm already familiar with Taylor's
                        opinion.

                                 ROSS
                        You don't really believe this?

                                 BERLIN
                        One hundred fucking per cent! ..
                        And you know why? Coz I never
                        told her good-bye. O.K.? Is that
                        good enough for the "committee?"

     And as long as you like evaporates before ROSS can speak again.

                                 ROSS
                        Well .. I didn't know that ..

                                 BERLIN
                        No .. You didn't know that ..

     BERLIN is drinking whisky. Sticks another slug in the cup. Now
     realizes whose bottle this is. Slams it somewhere on the bench.

                        Here. You left your booze in here.

                                 ROSS
                        Who d'you think it was?

     Ross gets the kind of smile a smart guy wouldn't give an idiot.

                        You think it was him?

                                 BERLIN
                        That's a very stupid question, Ross.

                                 ROSS
                        I'm asking it.

                                 BERLIN
                        How the hell do I know who? Some
                        jerk-off. Some peeping-tom prick.

     His hand has found the switch-blade. A nasty click as it opens.

                        .. but definitely not him. This
                        guy's in the trade. He's not gon-
                        na stand there looking at her ass,
                        if he's in the room, she's dead ..

     BERLIN puts the knife in his Dummy. If she's alive. She's dead.

                                 ROSS
                        Ease off, John ..

                                 BERLIN
                        I'm sick of this toy town shit.

                                 ROSS
                        Everything you say sounds reason-
                        able. But there's also a reason-
                        able explanation for the opposite.

                                 BERLIN
                        Don't give me that! Not another
                        word! When you had the Fat Lady
                        in there, and I asked you if she
                        was lying, you looked me right
                        in the eyes and said yes. So as
                        far as I was concerned, she's ly-
                        ing. And if the King of fucking
                        England had walked in & told me
                        different, I wouldn't have bel-
                        ieved him - because you told me ..

     This atmosphere would stretch any friendship to breaking point.

                        And now I'm telling you. I'm looking
                        you right in the eyes and telling ya,
                        there's a "bad man" out there, and I
                        don't know if he's in the next room,
                        or the next state: and I don't know
                        what his trigger is? But if he reads
                        her name in the newspaper, I believe
                        he'll be inclined to do something ab-
                        out it. I've got a bad feeling. And I
                        been doing this too long to be wrong.

     There are tough eyes to look into. And ROSS finally looks away.

                                 ROSS
                        I dunno what I can do to help you?

                                 BERLIN
                        I dunno what I'd do with your help.
                        I've gotta take her out of there ..

                                 ROSS
                        What about Citrine?

                                 BERLIN
                        Screw Citrine. He can fire me.

     87:  EXT.  LANDSCAPE.  COUNTRY ROAD.  DAY.

     Wide over the countryside. The car is a long way off. A pretty
     magic looking dawn. Cows on hills and mist in the hollows. The
     Mercedes finally arrives. Up the track and into the (refurbish-
     ed) garage. Engine off and little but a sound of singing birds.

     88:  INT.  LIVING ROOM.  BERLIN'S HOUSE.  DAY.

     HELENA sits on the sofa. She's a lousy liar and having a tough
     time with the phone " .. my aunt called twice .. well, soon, I
     hope so .. right now, I'm scared to be there .. who? .. just a
     second .. O.K. .. just a second.. Goodridge wants the number?"
     She seeks decision from BERLIN who doesn't want him to have it.

                                 HELENA (Phone)
                        Mr Goodridge? ..  I can't find it ..
                        No .. there's no one here to read
                        it right now .. Well, yes, I know ..
                        of course I will ..  yes, promise ..
                        I'll get it and call you tomorrow ..

     And that's it except for "Goodbyes." He takes the phone and re-
     places it. Her expression is a toss up between guilt & anxiety.

                        I feel really bad about it, coz
                        they invited me for Christmas ..

                                 BERLIN
                        Has he got your aunt's address?

                                 HELENA
                        I don't think so .. He said the
                        police had been calling .. want-
                        ed to ask me some more questions ..

                                 BERLIN
                        Who?
                              (She doesn't know)
                        Probably Angelo .. I'll take
                        care of it .. Don't worry, we-
                        're gonna find this guy, and
                        everything'll be O.K. .. O.K.?

     Only thing he fails to mention is which guy he's talking about.
     Anyway the subject is already changed. He notices tapes in her
     bag. "Would you like me to put your music on?" No, she doesn't
     want music. O.K. He's gonna light the fire and make them lunch.

     99:  EXT.  WOODSHED.  BERLIN'S HOUSE.  DAY.

     BERLIN is splitting logs and HELENA is sitting an a step "watch-
     ing" him. She's looking almost happy with only worry in the way.

                                 BERLIN
                        You're looking worried again, Helena?

                                 HELENA
                        No I'm not.

                                 BERLIN
                        You're looking more worried now than
                        when you "decided to stop worrying"?

                                 HELENA
                        Alright, I'm worried about Christmas.
                        I wish I hadn't told him I'd be back ..

     A log tangents off. BERLIN retrieves it. Tosses it in a barrow.

                                 BERLIN
                        He'll get over it. I'll roast
                        us a chicken, O.K.  With cand-
                        les around it. How about that?

     A distant owl hoots. She knows he's smiling. She's smiling too.

                                 HELENA
                        Wouldn't it be better if I cook
                        it? You said, you can only boil?

     90:  INT.  LIVING ROOM.  HOUSE.  NIGHT.

     The Music is Puccini. Part one/Act two/The Humming Chorus from
     Madam Butterfly. Giant close of the spinning cassette. The Cam-
     era remains close as it explores the room. Candle light & fire-
     light. Along a mantlepiece. Eleven thirty-five on a clock. Two 
     Christmas cards. Several photographs from the happy years. One
     a picture of Ross & Berlin in uniform. Another features Berlin
     with his arm around a beautiful young lady with long dark hair.
     For a moment it could be Helena? But the Camera's already gone.

     HELENA cuddles knees in the corner of a sofa. Looks considerab-
     ly more relaxed. But there's a tension here and both are aware
     of it. Stifled yawns. She stares at him and BERLIN stares back.
     A billion people in love have been through this. It's bed-time.
     [A suggestion of Berlin's bed to be is heaped in pillows/blank-
     ets at the end of the couch.] "Come on, I'll take you up there."
     She finds his hand and stands. The Music follows them upstairs.

     91:  INT.  BEDROOM.  HOUSE.  NIGHT.

     Moonlight through the windows. They are silhouettes. They want
     to embrace but in a situation like this a bedroom is the worst
     place to be. No sound except the Music. And what's anyone supp-
     osed to say? This atmosphere is about kissing and nothing more.

     Christ hear this Music. A sweet pulse of Puccini. Big close of
     lips meeting in moonlight. Now in each other's arms. They kiss.
     And then they're kissing. And nothing else is happening in the
     whole fucking universe except a telephone just started to ring.

     Still ringing. Still kissing. Somebody has got to give in. The
     phone finally gets answered. The voice at the end isn't expect-
     ed. But BERLIN sounds pleased to hear it. It seems one problem
     got solved. "I gotta tell you, Margie. You are Mrs Santa Claus."

     92:  INT/EXT.  KITCHEN/REAR ENTRANCE.  ROSS'S HOUSE.  DAY.

     Is Ross throwing a party or opening a bar? Crates of booze and
     stack upon stack of beer. A bit of "where do you want it?" act-
     ing from BERLIN as he staggers in with a delivery of Bud. ROSS
     makes room on a table. Rips a beer out the plastic and pops it.

                                 BERLIN
                        Can't thank you enough, Ross ..

                                 ROSS
                        Don't thank me. Thank Margie.

     Swallowing beer ROSS exits the back door with BERLIN following.

                        It's her invitation. And as
                        far as Citrine in concerned,
                        better we keep it like that.

     The wagon waits outside with a few crates left to unload, BER-
     LIN heads for his Mercedes with ROSS calling after him. "John.
     Here." Pulls a six pack from his supplies and throws it across.

                        There's an old desperado in
                        one of the cells. Why don't
                        you give him this, and tell
                        him happy Christmas from me?

     93:  INT.  BEDROOM.  THE ROSS RESIDENCE.  DAY.

     The Girls prepare for festivity. They got a full length mirror.
     A wardrobe of dresses. A menu of shoes, What they do with them
     in this scene is their affair. Right now MARGIE's holding some
     blue number in front of HELENA."It's blue silk. You like blue?"

                                 MARGIE
                        Not "you" blue. This isn't you.

     She slings the dress on the bed. It joins a pile of rehearsals.
     Moves deeper into her dresses and HELENA appears in the mirror.

                                 HELENA
                        When did John divorce?

                                 MARGIE
                        Two or three years ago.

                                 HELENA
                        What was she like?

                                 MARGIE
                        Suzanne? Very pretty. She was a semi-
                        professional model. But a policeman's
                        wife she wasn't. So one day, she just
                        packed it and left. And his whole life
                        went straight down the nearest toilet.

                                 HELENA
                        What does that mean?

                                 MARGIE
                        You know, he crashed. He just couldn't
                        come to terms with it .. John hates to
                        lose, and he hated losing her .. Every
                        spare minute, he's driving down to San
                        Diego, having a terrible time with her,
                        getting drunk, and driving back .. you
                        just don't believe the amount he drank ..

     She pirouettes with black sequins. "What do you think of black?"
     Evidently not much and MARGIE is getting short of alternatives.

                        Wait a minute, I just had
                        the most brilliant idea ..

                                 HELENA
                        You think he still loves her?

                                 MARGIE
                        Think he still thinks about her. But
                        not like then. Then was an obsession.

     She emerges from the wardrobe with red satin high heeled shoes.

                        Here .. try these .. if these
                        fit, we got the perfect dress ..

                                 HELENA
                        I haven't worn heels since I was 16.
                        I don't think I could walk in these?

                                 MARGIE
                        Sure you can. Anyway, parties
                        are all about standing still ..

     HELENA is excited to try them out. The experiment is a success.

                        I'll go get the dress .. It's kinda
                        sultry .. I only wore it once, coz
                        in reality, I can't get away with it ..

                                 HELENA
                        You think John would like it?

                                 MARGIE
                        I think John, would love it ...

     94:  EXT.  HOUSE.  NIGHT.

     The Ross residence looks like an ad for J&B. Warm yellow light
     from the windows. Holly wreath on the front door. The Mercedes
     pulls up and BERLIN gets out with his bag and suit on a hanger.
     A hard wind around the house. He walks inside without knocking.

     95:  INT.  DEN.  HOUSE.  NIGHT.

     The den looks like a little museum. Walls decorated with Civil
     War memorabilia. One wall occupied by a cabinet of modern guns.
     ROSS looks like Roy Rogers trying to look like Fred Astaire. A
     powder blue evening suit. Ho dumps ice in a barrel full of Bud-
     wieser and BERLIN produces a couple of presents. "This is from
     Helena. And this is from me." The first obviously a music tape.
     ROSS holds it to his ear. "Sounds like Frank Sinatra?" And the
     second a bottle of (Ross tears the wrappings off) Chivas Regal!

                                 ROSS
                        Let's do one of these right now,
                        then we'll hide the sonovabitch.

     But he's already lost BERLIN's attention. MARGIE walks in with
     HELENA. Jesus what have you done to her? Bright red lipstick &
     jet black mascara and dress made of blood red sequins. Sexy it
     is but her it isn't. She looks like one of those big tit dopes
     from Tennessee. She also looks like 37 million dollars. Christ
     that smile works with paint. An appraisal comes from ROSS "Wow."

     96:  INT.  LIVING ROOM.  HOUSE.  NIGHT.

     The whole house is going around in a haze of booze and colored
     lights and laughter. Buddy Holly supplies the music "True Love
     Ways" and ROSS is a victim of the nostalgia. Dances close with
     MARGIE. Among the kaleidoscope of passing couples are HELENA &
     BERLIN. Eyes closed and oblivious of everything but each other.

     But someone is staring at them. About forty years old with big
     hands. Too old for acne but the skin is bad. Got a scar on his
     cheek like a ladder in a stocking. He continues to stare until
     the dancers separate. Music ends and he's already in the crowd.

     BERLIN arrives with a whisper for MARGIE and next thing HELENA
     is on her arm heading for the stairs. Obviously a "ladies room"
     run. Everly Brothers next record up and SERATO appears through
     the crush. Spots ROSS who wants to know "What happened to you?"

                                 SERATO
                        Duty Sergeant fucked up .. can
                        you believe it, I'm on tonight ..

     "How long have you got?" "One big drink." And they head for it.

                        Did you get my message?

                                 BERLIN
                        No.

                                 SERATO
                        I left a message on your machine.
                        It wasn't me calling. Sam around?

     This last question to ROSS who delivers a typically large shot.

                                 ROSS
                        Yeah .. I guess she's in the kit-
                        chen .. We got a so-called prof-
                        essional cook out there having a
                        nervous breakdown over a turkey ..

                                 BERLIN
                        Are you sure you didn't call?

                                 SERATO
                        I spoke to old whass-his-name
                        a couple of times. But not to
                        her, and I never asked for her ..

                                 ROSS
                        Her who?

                                 BERLIN
                        Someone's calling the institute
                        to talk to Helena. Says he wants
                        to ask her some more questions ..

                                 SERATO
                        Not guilty ..

     And he pushes off to see his wife. BERLIN looks around worried.

                                 BERLIN
                        You got a quiet phone somewhere?

                                 ROSS
                        Hey, John, don't start getting
                        antsy over this tonight. It may
                        well have been the local cops?

                                 BERLIN
                        That's just what I wanna find out.

     97:  INT.  BATHROOM.  HOUSE.  NIGHT.

     MARGIE fixes HELENA's lips. Big on the lipstick. Another layer
     of magenta is going on "Are you sure I look O.K." Her question
     interrupts the Revlon "You're the prettiest girl here by about
     two hundred per cent." MARGIE moves in again for the lower lip.

                                 MARGIE
                        How you doing on those shoes?

                                 HELENA
                        Don't mix very well with beer.

     Perhaps she is a tiny bit tipsy? MARGIE smiles and says "Press."

                                 MARGIE
                        Girl like you should be drinking
                        chill white wine. Press. All done.

     A knock on the door. "Come in" and BOBBY sticks his head inside.

                                 BOBBY
                        That woman in the kitchen says
                        if she doesn't get help within
                        10 seconds, she's gonna resign.

                                 MARGIE
                        That woman is a disaster ...

     She turns to the mirror in exasperation and mends her own face.

                        Alright, tell her I'm coming. No,
                        wait a minute, honey. Take Helena
                        for me, and find John? And don't
                        let go of her hand until you do ..

     INT.  LIVING ROOM/DEN.  HOUSE.  NIGHT.

     A pause in the Music amplifies conversation. Bullshit and beer
     and everyone talking about nothing. BOBBY leads HELENA through
     the row. Can't find Berlin and now they're in the den. The ser-
     ious Guzzlers have made it base. Everyone talking and everyone
     lying but no Berlin and BOBBY is about to make a major mistake.

                                 BOBBY
                        I'll just go see if he's in the
                        kitchen .. you stay right here ..

     Her protest is absorbed in sound. And anyway he's already gone.
     At once she is vulnerable. Doesn't know if she's staring at the
     back of a head or straight into someone's face. "Didn't we meet
     somewhere?" The question comes from the man with the scar. He's
     drunk as a dog and already got a tattooed hand around her waist.

                                 VENABLES
                        Hey, Popeye!

                                 POPEYE
                        Hey, Fat Guy! Gimme 2 minutes. I'm
                        about to ask this lady for a dance?

     Trash aftershave and lousy breath and clearly the answer is no.

                        If I told you I'd driven all the way
                        from Oakland would you dance with me?

     Willy Nelson starts to sing. And HELENA attempts to break away.

                        What's so special about the other guy?
                        You like cops, don't you .. I'm a cop ..

     HELENA finds the top of a couch. Holds it like a raft of secur-
     ity. But where ever she goes this frightful mouth is following.

                        .. let me ask you a question? How do
                        you know the difference between one
                        guy and another? .. Maybe you don't ..
                        Maybe you only know the "difference"
                        when you're dancing? (he laughs) If
                        you knew what I looked like, you'd
                        dance with me. I look like John Wayne ..

                                 HELENA
                        I know what you look like. Excuse me.

     She navigates the back of the sofa. Collides with somebody and
     apologizes. "I'm sorry. Is anyone sitting there?" Enough ambiv-
     alence in the question for the guy not to know she's blind. No.
     No one sitting there. Simultaneously a pair of middle-age crew
     cuts occupy the sofa. A second later HELENA sits bang into one
     of the laps. Spilt drinks and surprise all round. Pleasant sur-
     prise for the victim. He's a lecherous looking old bastard and
     Helena's dress rides up for a damned good view of the lingerie.

                                 FLESHY VOICE
                        Happy Christmas, Max ...

                                 MAX
                        I normally get socks ...

     Every humiliation there is. However HELENA gets out of this is
     however she achieves it. But by the time she does she's crying.

     99:  INT.  HALLWAY/STAIRS.  HOUSE.  NIGHT.

     A calm spot between kitchen & stairs. In the background Guests
     raid the kitchen for food. BERLIN looks like he should be smok-
     ing a cigarette. At last MARGIE comes downstairs with the news.

                                 MARGIE
                        She wants to go back
                        to the institute ..

     ROSS already arrived. BERLIN looks desolate. She can't go back.

                        You better go talk to her ..

     ROSS watches him walk upstairs. His eyes an assessment of this
     absurd relationship. "All sorts of people fall in love, Darlin."

                                 ROSS
                        I know .. ain't it a shame ..

     100:  INT.  BEDROOM.  HOUSE.  NIGHT.

     A wedge of light as BERLIN walks in. Then moonlight again. HEL-
     ENA sits at the edge of a single bed. Hair a wreck and mascara
     streaks down her face. He sits identifying himself with an emb-
     race. Clears the hair from her eyes and kisses where the tears
     were. "It was an accident .. everyone has accidents." Whatever
     he said would be the wrong thing to say. Because he doesn't un-
     derstand. And her only explanation of this misery is new tears.

                                 HELENA
                        I can't walk in these shoes ..

     Gently he reaches down and takes off her shoos "You don't have
     to dress like this for me." And suddenly the mood is different.
     He is amongst her tears. Kissing her mouth. Already undressing
     her. Her dress glides up. Silk stockings. He unclips them. She
     feels his hands drift down her legs. Hears the zip opening her
     dress. She returns his desire and helps him with her brassiere.
     He kisses her breasts and by now the Camera's too close to see.

     101:  INT.  BEDROOM.  HOUSE.  NIGHT.

     HELENA asleep in BERLIN's arms. Just the worry of the wind. He
     kisses her and slips out of bed and everything slams into MASS-
     IVE CLOSE-UP. PLUS A MASSIVE AMPLIFICATION OF SOUND. THE SLIDE
     SNAPS BACK ON A 9 MILL BERETTA. THE MAGAZINE SHUNTS OUT. SLUGS
     LOADED AND MAG BACK IN. THE SLIDE TRAVELS FORWARD BIG AS A CAR.

     BERLIN is fully dressed. Geared up for work. Black leather glo-
     ves and black leather jacket. Shoves the Beretta into his belt.
     From somewhere a very soft sound of Christmas carols drifts in.

     102:  INT.  STAIRS/LIVING ROOM/DEN.  HOUSE.  NIGHT.

     This is deep past midnight, The house is quiet and gone to bed.
     Fallout from the party everywhere. Still that distant sound of
     carols. BERLIN dumps his bag and walks into the den. Just dark-
     ness and the forgotten tape machine. Flips on a lamp and tries
     to open the gun cabinet. Still trying when startled by a voice.

                                 ROSS (O.S.)
                        You can't get in there ..
                        That's "Comanche Proof."

     BERLIN swings round in surprise. ROSS is half asleep on a sofa.

                                 BERLIN
                        Jesus. What are you doin?

                                 ROSS
                        I spose I'm drinking myself to
                        sleep. It's Helena's Christmas
                        songs .. they're really pretty ..

     "Silent Night. Holy Night" and about two inches of Chivas left.

                                 BERLIN
                        Have you got any Glasers?
                              (Ross does)
                        Twenty fives?

     BERLIN sticks a foot on a table. Pulls a .25 Walther automatic
     from an ankle holster. Ejects the mag and clicks out the slugs.

                                 ROSS
                        What exactly you doing, John?

                                 BERLIN
                        I'm going up to the institute.

                                 ROSS
                        Now?

                                 BERLIN
                        This "cop" that's calling, thinks
                        she gonna be there over Christmas.

     ROSS unlocks a cabinet and BERLIN is about to load the Glasers.

                        I checked with the locals and our
                        station, no one's called. Whoever
                        it is, isn't the police.  I think
                        this bastard's getting worried ab-
                        out something? .. and I think the-
                        re's just a chance he'll turn up.

                                 ROSS
                        Well, let's hope he does ..

     ROSS selects a 12 gauge Winchester and rams the mechanism open.

                        And if he does, I'm gonna
                        drop a bomb on the fukker.

                                 BERLIN
                        Listen, you don't havta come?

                                 ROSS
                        Hey ..

     ROSS is stuffing solid lead "car killers" into the pump action.

                        Watch my lips. I'm your partner.

     103:  EXT.  SHASTA-TRINITY INSTITUTE.  NIGHT.

     This is probably a crane shot. A gale works up the valley. The
     institute is in total darkness. Not a vehicle out front. Not a
     sound except the marauding wind. Ross's Chevrolet is concealed
     amongst trees. Been here long enough to allow slow flurries to
     accumulate. It stares towards the building maybe 75 yards away.

     104:  INT.  CHEVROLET SEDAN.  NIGHT.

     BERLIN wears a black wool hat. ROSS a big black overcoat. Both
     got shit frozen out of them. A bottle available and anyone who
     wants a slug better help himself. Plus sleet on the windshield
     and a lot of stale time. BERLIN asks what time it is? And ROSS
     takes a heave on the booze and waits for about a week to go by.

                                 ROSS
                        Where's your watch?

                                 BERLIN
                        I guess by the bed.

                                 ROSS
                        It's twenty of three.

     Yawns do a circuit. ROSS flops in his seat and the angle chang-
     es. The view from the rear covers windscreen and back of heads.

                        A little young for you, Bro?
                              (Gets his eyes)
                        You think if she could see,
                        she'd be hanging around with
                        an old dog like you? You got
                        a stomach growing around to
                        meet itself behind your back.

                                 BERLIN
                        Bull shit .. I'm in my prime ..

                                 ROSS
                        Bits.

                                 BERLIN
                        What d'you mean, "bits."

     A star-light on the windshield. Distant and nobody seen it yet.

                                 ROSS
                        Policemen's bodies age at diff-
                        erent rates. Look at me. Gut in
                        its fifties. Balls in their six-
                        ties. And feet in their eighties ..

                                 BERLIN
                        Hit those wipers, Ross.

     Urgency snaps him into close-up. Big noise as wipers clear the
     screen. "I thought I saw a light?" BERLIN stares at the instit-
     ute through small binoculars. "There. Flashlight went right ac-
     ross those windows!" Instant excitement as the adrenalin pumps
     in. "Fourth floor. See it? He's fucken in there!" And suddenly
     everything including super-sinister Music is happening at once.

     105:  EXT.  CHEVROLET.  INSTITUTE.  NIGHT.

     Pines singing as the gale tears into them. Clutching his Winch-
     ester ROSS opens the trunk. A dim light and a fluster of equip-
     ment. BERLIN sorts out a pair of radios. Selects a channel and
     ROSS whispers "What are you on?" ("local Tac.") Here come huge
     12 cell flashlights and the intense whispers continue. "Local?"

                                 ROSS
                        What if we need a back up?

                                 BERLIN
                        We're not here. I don't
                        want the desk to hear us ..

     O.K. it's channel 4 and copy? And they're already on their way.

     106:  EXT.  BACK OF BUILDING.  INSTITUTE.  NIGHT.

     The storm bullies its way around the building. Lights approach
     quickly. But one of them is already fading. It belongs to ROSS.
     This fucker's got about 5 minutes in it. And whatever the plan
     was it just got changed. BERLIN looks around in apprehension -
     going in there alone ain't no joy - his flashlight ascends the
     fire escape. And there it is 2 floors up. A half opened window.

                                 BERLIN
                        Alright. I'll start at
                        the top, and work down.

                                 ROSS
                        You ain't going in alone?

                                 BERLIN
                        That's a liability, Ross. I
                        don't want you hanging on to
                        my shirt. Anyone but me comes
                        down these stairs, take em out
                        but try and keep him alive. I
                        want this bastard living ..

     Takes off up the stairs. ROSS watches him vanish. (Waiting out
     here ain't so tasty either.) The wind rages in nearby trees. A
     door slams repeatedly somewhere a long way away. [Ross?] "10/2"
     [I'm going in.] Big on ROSS and the radio. "You take care, Bro."

     107:  INT.  REAR STAIRWELL.  INSTITUTE.  NIGHT.

     BERLIN climbs through the window. Drops down and waits to orien-
     tate himself. He's on a small landing midway between flights of 
     stairs. Different kinds of noises in here. One hundred per cent
     more sinister. "Ross. Ross? You hearing me?" [10/2]. "I'm going 
     upstairs." Snaps the safety-catch on his Beretta. And it sounds 
     ominous. Every shadow in this place is animated with foreboding.

     108:  INT.  STAIRWELL/CORRIDOR.  INSTITUTE.  NIGHT.

     Looking down the stairwell. The light comes up. BERLIN arrives
     on another floor. Hard to sweat in here but he's doing it. His
     progress is distinctly cautious. A harsh wind rockets down the
     stairs flapping a pair of owing doors. BERLIN eases through in-
     to the corridor. At its far end is the elevator. He travels to-
     wards it in an eerie piston of light. [John? What's happening?]

     109:  EXT.  REAR OF INSTITUTE.  NIGHT.

     ROSS has moved into the shelter of a wall. Sleet passes almost
     horizontally. His flashlight is over. The color of a tangerine.

                                 ROSS [BERLIN]
                        [I'm on Helena's floor .. I'm
                        just gonna take a look at her
                        apartment .. You O.K.] Fucken
                        flashlight's kaput .. [Door's
                        locked .. shit] What's happen-
                        ing, Brother? [I can hear some-
                        thing? .. Something upstairs?]

     110:  INT.  CORRIDOR.  INSTITUTE.  NlGHT.

     BERLIN stares up at the coiling "I can hear footsteps .. right
     up above?" They disappear into the gale. Doors beat at the end
     of the corridor. He moves towards them and pushes out onto the
     stairway. Nothing but the wind. He's about to climb when an al-
     arming voice shocks him rigid. "YOU ARE NOW ON THE THIRD FLOOR."

     BERLIN is already running. Light swinging wildly as he sprints
     back up the corridor. Fifteen yards to elevator/stairs. Breath-
     less as hell he hits the radio. "Fucker's in the elevator." Al-
     most jumps stairs in haste. Bursts out onto the 3rd floor. Ham-
     mer back on the Beretta. Just in time to see the doors closing.

     "Get ready, Ross. He maybe coming down." But he isn't. He's go-
     ing up. By the time he's recovered breath the Voice is back in
     business. Whoever rides the elevator is now on the fifth floor.

     111:  INT.  STAIRWELL.  INSTITUTE.  NIGHT.

     Totally breathless now. Eyes ascend faster than feet. Whine of
     a swinging door. BERLIN rounds the stairwell. The door's still
     busy. Top of the building here and the ceilings are closing in.

     BERLIN'S P.O.V. as he heads for that door. Closer. Three steps
     to go. Closer. Two steps more. One step. Reaches for it. Whamm! 
     The door smashes into him like it hates him. So fast it hardly
     happened. He staggers back. His flashlight clatters downstairs.

     Banisters capsize as the light passes. Every shadow goes crazy.
     The flashlight arrives at a lower level. Rolls away and stops.
     Wastes power into a corner. Can't see Berlin and can't see his
     radio. But Ross cuts into the silence with increasing disquiet.

                        [John? John? Are you al-
                        right? .. Come in, John?]

     112:  EXT.  REAR OF INSTITUTE/FIRE ESCAPE.  NIGHT.

     ROSS savaged by the gale. In considerable anxiety. Less than a
     volt in his batteries. His failure to contact Berlin accelerat-
     es his concern by the moment. Calls repeatedly "You hearing me?"

     Big close on the radio. Fingers switch channels. Tries calling
     on five/six. Still nothing and goes to channel eight. "Come in,
     John?" Alright fuck it. Light or no light. He's going up there. 
     Still calling he barges at the wind making for the fire escape.

                        [You hear me? Just be care-
                        ful now, coz I'm coming up]

     Stares up into the gloom of the iron stairs. Hardly got a foot
     on the first before a Figure rushes down. Dressed in black and
     very breathless. A powerful flashlight floods on dazzling ROSS.

                        Is that you, John? .. Ans-
                        wer. NOW .. Or I blow this
                        fucken staircase to pieces.

                                 BERLIN [?]
                        Me, Freddy.

     Thank Jesus the anxiety's over. The 12 gauge drops to his side.

                                 ROSS
                        What the hell's going on up there,
                        Brother? I been calling 10 minutes.

     The light remains steady and blinding and straight in his face.

                        Hey, c'mon, John .. Talk to me ...

     Just the sound of breathlessness. Plus a .25 Walther automatic.

                        Jesus Christ .. What are you doing?

     It glints at the peripheries of his vision and ROSS is alarmed.

                        What the fuck are you doing? - It's
                        me - Holy shit! - John - John - Not
                        you - Don't shoot you crazy bastard!

     Two deathly flashes in quick succession. The first practically
     taken Ross's hand off. The second slams into his guts and he's
     down. The Glaser is unequalled in ferocity by any other bullet.

     113:  EXT.  FIRE ESCAPE (ATTIC LEVEL).  INSTITUTE.  NIGHT.

     The MYOPIC JANITOR looks down. Five floors below a man lays on
     his back. His shotgun discharges uselessly into trees. Another
     man leans over him. Illuminates his agonized face with a flash-
     light. Shoots him again point-blank in the upper body. The MYO-
     PIC isn't staying for more. Hurries back along the fire escape.

     114:  INT.  ATTIC APARTMENT.  INSTITUTE.  NIGHT.

     Wind breaks on the roof like waves. An utterly dismal room lit
     by a starving light bulb. The MYOPIC arrives from the fire esc-
     ape. Huge eyes behind those orb-like glasses. Picks up a phone
     and dials. Piles and piles of old newspapers. Hundreds of fuck 
     magazines. In the kitchen section a mass of photographic equip-
     ment includes an enlarger on the table a flash camera.  On the
     wall behind him a collage of snaps of half dressed girls. Plus
     a special enlargement of Helena standing naked in her bathroom.

                                 MYOPIC
                        Gimme the police. Quickly.

     115:  EXT.  REAR OF INSTITUTE.  FIRE ESCAPE.  NIGHT.

     Close on a bulb in a flashlight. The merest glimmer of energy.
     Barely the light to see the blood. It seeps into a long-frozen
     footprint in the ice. Fills it fast and expands over the sides.

     Somebody say this can't be happening? BERLIN crumples to knees
     in the snow. Dumps his light gasping for breath. Oblique light
     creating desperate silhouettes. BERLIN howls like a dog. Howls
     into his radio. "Nine - Nine - Nine." Blood all over his hands.

     "This is a Nine - Nine - Nine - officer down." ROSS is heaving 
     like an old bull elephant. On the verge of unconsciousness. He
     tries to speak. Got hit in the throat. BERLIN fights off tears.

     "Don't talk old man." Repeats the emergency code but this time
     he can't be heard. Almost imperceptibly a Carol filters in (In
     The Bleak Mid Winter) and the Camera moves slowly away. BERLIN
     cradles ROSS's tragic head and the song drowns the raging wind.

     This beautiful Christmas carol will articulate rhythm of these
     cuts. And there will be no other sound until the sequence ends.

     116:  EXT.  CITY STREET.  CITY HOSPITAL.  NIGHT.

     A blue emergency light. Revolving in slow motion. Like a dream.
     The city streets are a blur. The light accelerates into sudden
     reality. Ambulance plus police convoy speed to a city hospital.

     117:  INT.  EMERGENCY ROOM.  HOSPITAL.  NIGHT.

     Close-up of MARGIE kissing her husband's lips for the last time.
     Tears spill down his cheeks from her eyes. FREDDY ROSS is dead.

     118:  INT.  WAITING AREA.  HOSPITAL.  NIGHT.

     Outside in the corridor. Looking in at BERLIN. He sits head in
     hands on a bench. This is somebody's point of view. The camera
     travels up the windows. Waits at a distance as CITRINE arrives.
     Pajamas under his clothes. He walks with assistance of a stick.

     Neither say anything because both know what this is about. BER-
     LIN stands and hands over his badge. Exits the mag and now his
     Beretta. A brief word from CITRINE and he turns and walks away.

     119:  EXT.  LANDSCAPE.  BERLIN'S HOUSE.  DAWN.

     A little house in winter meadows. Kind of pretty now it's pain-
     ted. Just the first tint of pink on its roof. The Carol dissol-
     ves into birdsong. Here comes the sun for a fine Christmas day.

     120:  EXT.  VERANDA.  HOUSE.  DAWN.

     All new paint and all new things in expectation of happy times.
     A barbecue still in polythene wraps. Price tag and unconnected
     gas pipe shift gently in the breeze. A brand now swinging seat.

     BERLIN sits in it with shock wearing on. Expressionless of sor-
     row. Though he suffers every sorrow and guilt and regret there
     is. Sunlight reaches the veranda and colors the end of it red.
     silent and motionless he watches the lousiest dawn of his life.

     121:  EXT/INT.  THE ROSS RESIDENCE.  LIVING ROOM.  DAY.

     Lights glow on the Christmas tree. Unopened presents still und-
     erneath. SERATO sits smoking in silence. Listens to a sound of
     plates getting stacked in another room. He looks up but not in
     surprise. He just wasn't aware BERLIN had arrived in the house.

                                 BERLIN
                        Where's Margie?

     Stunned and stubbled and full of grief. And that's just SERATO.

                                 SERATO
                        Taken Bobby to her sister's ..

     This atmosphere is unbearable and even these whispers seem laud.

                        They were going there anyway.

                                 BERLIN
                        Does he know?

     SERATO shakes his head. Loses his cigarette. And SAMMY appears.

                                 SERATO
                        Thinks his dad's in hospital.

     SAMMY SERATO is 30 and pretty. She continues collecting plates.

                        Why'd you go up there, John?

     Knows he's not going to get a reply and doesn't bother to wait
     for it. HELENA materializes from the den like a shadow. Sallow
     for want of sleep and glad to have BERLIN's hand to hang on to.

                                 BERLIN
                        I want you to go to your Aunt's.

     A suggestion that surprises HELENA. And clearly doesn't appeal.

                                 HELENA
                        Why can't I stay with you?

                                 BERLIN
                        It's not possible right now.

                                 HELENA
                        Why?

                                 BERLIN
                        Please don't ask no quest-
                        ions now .. Not right now ..

     If silence can intensify it's now. Sound of the front door and
     then footsteps. BERLIN freezes as MARGIE appears. Wracked with
     grief. Dead sickness of tears. Like she cried bones out of her
     face. But no weeping now. Maybe shock. Maybe brave. Maybe both.

                                 HELENA
                        Is that Margie?

                                 MARGIE
                        I'm here, honey. I'm right here.

     The strongest face in the house. And now HELENA is in her arms.

                        Don't cry darlin .. he was a big
                        old cop and he didn't like tears ..

     Dead echos of plates in the kitchen. And song of birds outside.

                        Feels like every second in my life,
                        was just the moment leading to this.

                                 BERLIN
                        Margie ..

                                 MARGIE
                        Don't.

     Raises her hand to silence him and this is silence Margie owns.

                        Don't.

     Christ this is just awful. HELENA crying and BERLIN on the way.

                        What's gonna happen now, John?

                                 BERLIN
                        She has an aunt, in Vermont.
                        I'll take her there tonight.

                                 HELENA
                        I'm going back to the institute.

                                 BERLIN
                        No .. not now ..

                                 MARGIE
                        Helena can stay here if she'd like
                        to .. I'd like her to .. I'll look
                        after her .. and she can look after
                        me .. I'm tired now .. I must sleep ..

     Footsteps again as she walks out and silence again like before.

     122:  INT.  BEDROOM.  BERLIN'S HOUSE.  NIGHT.

     The Camera will slowly crane down on BERLIN. Fully dressed but
     wiped out he lays an the bad. Last thing he needs is booze. He
     is clearly full of it. Drifting in and out of consciousness. A
     nightmare either side of the line. He relives that night again.
     And Ross is alive again as guilt and regret demand to be heard.

                                 (ROSS)
                        You want me to make a predict-
                        ion? This guy ain't turning up.

                                 (BERLIN)
                        Maybe not .. What time is it?

                                 (ROSS)
                        Twenty-six minutes past two ..

                                 (BERLIN)
                        You shouldn't have come, Ross.

                                 (ROSS)
                        Don't worry .. You take your
                        time .. I just wanna be back
                        in time for Bobby's presents ..

     A memory that is too terrible to bear. BERLIN gets up and sits
     at the edge of the bad. Head in hands. Wants the pain to go aw-
     ay. But anguish is stronger than alcohol. Hears noises outside
     and makes it to a window. Tears curtains back revealing lights.
     His Mercedes hangs in space as though staring into the bedroom.

     123:  EXT.  FRONT YARD.  HOUSE.  NIGHT.

     The Mercedes descends onto a low-loader courtesy of a car lift-
     ing truck. BERLIN out of his door. Almost too ruined to apprec-
     iate what's happening. Crane lights and flashlights and chains
     getting tightened. Couple of Strangers and a Kid he recognizes.

                                 BERLIN
                        What are you doing, Travis?

                                 TRAVIS
                        I been told to take your car in, Sir.

                                 BERLIN
                        Why?

                                 TRAVIS
                        I dunno, Sir. Brought you up a Chevy.

     Flashes his light at a standard issue (brown) police Chevrolet.

                        I'm sorry, Sergeant. I did knock a
                        couple times. Didn't get any reply.

                                 BERLIN
                        You got a warrant for this?

                                 TRAVIS
                        Yes, Sir.

                                 BERLIN
                        Who sought the warrant?

                                 TRAVIS
                        The man from the F.B.I.

     124:  INT.  CHIEF'S OFFICE.  POLICE STATION.  DAY.

     The man from the F.B.I. is 50. Black suit and wing tips. All F.
     B.I. Investigators are either lawyers or accountants. And this
     fellow looks like both. When he smiles it's a decaffeinated ex-
     ercise. Bothers nothing but lips. This smile's always the same.

                                 BERLIN
                        I want a 24 hour protection
                        of Margie's house. Otherwise
                        I'm not saying nothing. You
                        give me that, or read me my
                        rights, and talk to a lawyer.

     BERLIN looks awful. Showered and shaved but just fucking awful.
     CITRINE slips focus to the man. And St ANNE imperceptibly nods.

                                 CITRINE
                        Alright, you got it. And I'll be
                        putting an Observer in with you.

                                 BERLIN
                        I want Serato ..
                               (Negative)
                        Why can't I have Serato?

                                 CITRINE
                        Coz I'm short of men & Ang-
                        elo won't do it .. Who ever
                        I got free first - you get ..

     125:  INT.  ANTI ROOM/INTERROGATION.  POLICE STATION.  DAY.

     Close on a pair of dancing needles. They react to voice-levels
     on a twin spool tape recorder. But no sound of yakking in here.
     St Anne's ASSISTANT sucks a pencil. Busy with a cross-word puz-
     zle. Fills in a word but the Camera isn't interested. It moves
     away to discover head phones. And moves closer to hear St ANNE.

                        [Always figured I'd like to retire
                        to a little town like this - maybe
                        buy a boat even, do some fishing?]

     126:  INT.  INTERROGATION ROOM.  POLICE STATION.  DAY.

     A change of chairs. A wood chair for the subject. Mobile chair
     for the man. Castors give him considerable freedom. Enable him
     to back off or move in with the intimacy of an ophthalmologist.

                                 St ANNE
                        You fish, John?

                                 BERLIN
                        I have done ..

     A side table features several pin sharp pencils. A Sony pocket
     recorder. Two packets of Pall Mall reds. Two yellow legal pads.
     The chair moves into reverse and he breaks a puke colored file.

                                 St ANNE
                        Alright, let's not beat about the
                        bush, what ever that may mean, and
                        get down on it. You were specific-
                        ally instructed by your chief, not
                        to go anywhere near the blind inst-
                        itute? So why did you go up there?

                                 BERLIN
                        Because of a feeling. I had a bad
                        feeling this man was gonna turn up.

                                 St ANNE
                        Which man is that?

                                 BERLIN
                        The man I detail in my report, Sir.

     The report that's in his hands. (St Anne knows well which man.)

                        Is this an interview, or an
                        interrogation?

                                 St ANNE
                        It's an enquiry ...

                                 BERLIN
                        I'm not prepared to be interrog-
                        ated. I'll be interviewed as an
                        officer, who may be expected to
                        cooperate with the investigator.

                                 St ANNE
                        Well, that's fine by me, John. And
                        I'm sure that's fine by your Chief.

     He smiles the non-smile. Tosses his pencil down. And sits back.

                        So you thought your man might show?

                                 BERLIN
                        Yes.

                                 St ANNE
                        Bit of a long-shot, wasn't it?

                                 BERLIN
                        It was the only shot I had ..

                                 St ANNE
                        So the one night you decide to
                        go up there, he goes up there?

                                 BERLIN
                        That's right. Except I'd decid-
                        ed to go up there every night ..

                                 St ANNE
                        Despite the wishes of your Chief?

                                 BERLIN
                        Yes.

                                 St ANNE
                        You were prepared to fal-
                        sify your reports to him?

                                 BERLIN
                        I had very good reasons for do....

                                 St ANNE
                        Just a second, John. I knew
                        there was something missing.

     St ANNE cuts him off to pi