
                                           JFK

                                            By

                               Oliver Stone & Zachary Sklar

                                    Based on books by

                                 Jim Marrs & Jim Garrison

                

                                                                    FADE IN

               Credits run in counterpoint through a 7 to 10 minute sequence 
               of documentary images setting the tone of John F. Kennedy's 
               Presidency and the atmosphere of those tense times, 1960 
               through 1963.  An omniscient narrator's voice marches us 
               through in old time Pathe' newsreel fashion.

                                     VOICE
                         January, 1961 - President Dwight D. 
                         Eisenhower's Farewell Address to the 
                         Nation -

               EISENHOWER ADDRESS

                                     EISENHOWER
                         The conjunction of an immense military 
                         establishment and a large arms 
                         industry is new in the American 
                         experience.  The total influence - 
                         economic, political, even spiritual - 
                         is felt in every city, every 
                         statehouse, every office of the 
                         Federal Government... In the councils 
                         of government we must guard against 
                         the acquisition of unwarranted 
                         influence, whether sought or unsought, 
                         by the military industrial complex.
                         The potential for the disastrous 
                         rise of misplaced power exists and 
                         will persist... We must never let 
                         the weight of this combination 
                         endanger our liberties or democratic 
                         processes.  We should take nothing 
                         for granted...

               ELECTION IMAGERY

               School kids reciting the Pledge of Allegiance.  WPA films of 
               farmers harvesting the Texas plains.  Rain, thunderheads, a 
               dusty car coming from far away on a road moving towards 
               Dallas.  Cowboys round up the cattle.  Young marrieds in a 
               church.  Hillsides of tract homes going up.  The American 
               breadbasket, the West.  Over this we hear Eisenhower's 
               address.  As we move into the election campaign of 1960, we 
               see the TV debates, Nixon vs. Kennedy, Mayor Daley, Kennedy 
               victorious...

               Against this is juxtaposed other forces: segregation, J. 
               Edgar Hoover, military advisors, Castro, Marilyn Monroe, 
               Lumumba... three frames of the Zapruder film counter-cut... 
               ending with the Kennedy inauguration and the irony of Earl 
               Warren administering the oath as he will Kennedy's eulogy.

                                     VOICE 2
                         November, 1960 - Senator John F. 
                         Kennedy of Massachusetts wins one of 
                         the narrowest election victories in 
                         American history over the Vice- 
                         President Richard Nixon by a little 
                         more than 100,000 votes.  Rumors 
                         abound that he stole the election in 
                         Illinois through the Democratic 
                         political machine of Mayor Daley...
                              (inauguration shots)
                         At his inauguration, at a time when 
                         American males all wore hats, he let 
                         his hair blow free in the wind.  
                         Alongside his beautiful and elegant 
                         wife of French origin, Jacqueline 
                         Bouvier, J.F.K. is the symbol of the 
                         new freedom of the 1960's, signifying 
                         change and upheaval to the American 
                         public, scaring many and hated 
                         passionately by some.  To win the 
                         election and to appease their fears, 
                         Kennedy at first takes a tough Cold 
                         War stance.

               BAY OF PIGS IMAGERY

               The beach, the bombardment, the rounding up of prisoners, 
               Kennedy's public apology, Allen Dulles standing next to 
               J.F.K., both uncomfortable with the small talk...

                                     VOICE 3
                         He inherits a secret war against the 
                         Communist Castro dictatorship in 
                         Cuba, a war run by the CIA and angry 
                         Cuban exiles out of bases in the 
                         Southern United States, Panama, 
                         Nicaragua and Guatemala.  Castro is 
                         a successful revolutionary frightening 
                         to American business interests in 
                         Latin America - companies like Cabot's 
                         United Fruit, Continental Can, and 
                         Rockefeller's Standard Oil.  This 
                         war culminates in the disastrous Bay 
                         of Pigs invasion in April 1961, when 
                         Kennedy refuses to provide air cover 
                         for the exile brigade.  Of the 1600 
                         men who invade, 114 are killed, 1200 
                         are captured.  The Cuban exiles and 
                         the CIA are furious at Kennedy's 
                         irresolution... Kennedy, taking public 
                         responsibility for the failure, 
                         privately claims the CIA lied to him 
                         and tried to manipulate him into 
                         ordering an all-out American invasion 
                         of Cuba.  He vows to splinter the 
                         CIA into a thousand pieces and fires 
                         Director Allen Dulles, Deputies 
                         Charles Cabell and Richard Bissell, 
                         the top leadership of the Agency.

               SECRET WAR IMAGERY

               Cuban rallies, footage of training camps, espionage 
               activities, boats, cases of weapons, Robert Kennedy... John 
               Roselli, Sam Giancana, Santos Trafficante, Richard Helms 
               (the new CIA chief), Bill Harvey, Head of ZR/RIFLE, Howard 
               Hunt...

                                     VOICE 4
                         The CIA, however, continues it's 
                         secret war on Castro with dozens of 
                         sabotage and assassination attempts 
                         under it's ZR/RIFLE and MONGOOSE 
                         programs - The Agency collaborates 
                         with organized crime elements such 
                         as John Roselli, Sam Giancana, and 
                         Santos Trafficante of Tampa, whose 
                         casino operations in Cuba, worth 
                         more than a hundred million dollars 
                         a year in income, Castro has shut 
                         down.

               CUBAN MISSILE CRISIS

               Khrushchev, Kennedy, Castro on television, meetings with 
               Cabinet, Russian vessels in Caribbean, U.S. nuclear bases on 
               alert, civilians going to underground safe areas... the 
               Russian ship turning around, the country smiling...

                                     VOICE 5
                         In October 1962, the world comes to 
                         the brink of nuclear war when Kennedy 
                         quarantines Cuba after announcing 
                         the presence of offensive Soviet 
                         nuclear missiles 90 miles off American 
                         shores.  The Joint Chiefs of Staff 
                         and the CIA call for an invasion.  
                         Kennedy refuses.  Soviet ships with 
                         more missiles sail towards the island, 
                         but at the last moment turn back.  
                         The world breathes with relief but 
                         backstage in Washington, rumors abound 
                         that J.F.K. has cut a secret deal 
                         with Russian Premier Khrushchev not 
                         to invade Cuba in return for a Russian 
                         withdrawal of missiles.  Suspicions 
                         abound that Kennedy is "soft on 
                         Communism."

               NUCLEAR TEST BAN IMAGERY

               Closing down Cuban Camps, McNamara speaking, Khrushchev and 
               Kennedy, the "hot line" telephone system inaugurated, Kennedy 
               with Jackie and children sailing off Cape Cod... Vietnam 
               introduction, early shots, Green Berets, counterinsurgency 
               programs, De Lansdale, leading up to the Test Ban signings... 
               then J.F.K. at American University, June 10, 1963.

                                     VOICE 6
                         In the ensuing months, Kennedy clamps 
                         down on Cuban exile activities, 
                         closing training camps, restricting 
                         covert operations, prohibiting 
                         shipment of weapons out of the 
                         country.  The covert arm of the CIA 
                         nevertheless continues its plan to 
                         assassinate Castor... In March '63, 
                         Kennedy announces drastic cuts in 
                         the defense budget.  In November 
                         1963, he orders the withdrawal by 
                         Christmas of the first 1000 troops 
                         of the 16,000 stationed in Vietnam.  
                         He tells several of his intimates 
                         that he will withdraw all Vietnam 
                         troops after the '64 election, saying 
                         to the Assistant Secretary of State, 
                         Roger Hilsman, "The Bay of Pigs has 
                         taught me one, not to trust generals 
                         or the CIA, and two, that if the 
                         American people do not want to use 
                         American troops to remove a Communist 
                         regime 90 miles from our coast, how 
                         can I ask them to use troops to remove 
                         a Communist regime 9,000 miles 
                         away?"... Finally, in August 1963, 
                         over the objections of the Joint 
                         Chiefs of Staff, the United States, 
                         Great Britain and the Soviet Union 
                         sign a treaty banning nuclear bomb 
                         tests in the atmosphere, underwater 
                         and in space...  Early that fateful 
                         summer, Kennedy speaks of his new 
                         vision at American University in 
                         Washington.

                                     JFK
                         What kind of peace do we seek?  Not 
                         a pax Americana enforced on the world 
                         by American weapons of war... We 
                         must re-examine our own attitudes 
                         towards the Soviet Union... If we 
                         cannot now end our differences at 
                         least we can help make the world 
                         safe for diversity.  For, in the 
                         final analysis, our most basic link 
                         is that we all inhabit this small 
                         planet.  We all breathe the same 
                         air.  We all cherish our children's 
                         future.  And we are all mortal...

               CONCLUDING KENNEDY IMAGERY

               Diplomats at the United Nations... Adlai Stevenson, Castor... 
               Martin Luther King and the March on Washington (a snatch of 
               his "I Have a Dream" speech)... Bobby Kennedy and Jimmy Hoffa 
               going at it... U.S.  Steel Chairman's remarks in the steel 
               face-off, men going to courtrooms with briefcases,... Teddy 
               Kennedy, Rose, Joe, the Kennedy family, all teeth and good 
               looks... and of course John campaigning, always campaigning, 
               shaking hands, smiling, that supremely warm smile and sense 
               of grace and ability to convey to crowds their oneness with 
               him... forever... culminating in the more specific Texas 
               shots... with Jackie in San Antonio, and Houston... then at 
               Fort Worth... then at Love Field moving through the clouds 
               toward the Dallas/Forth Worth plain which suddenly breaks 
               into view as we descend...

               LOUISIANA HIGHWAY - DAY (1963)

               A moving car carrying two Cuban males disgorges a rumpled, 
               screaming woman, Rose Cheramie, a whore in her thirties, 
               lying there bleeding in the dirt.  The car drives off.

               HOSPITAL - DAY (1963)

               We see Rose, badly cut but quite lucid, trying to reason 
               with a policeman, Lt. Fruge, and a doctor - in a remote black-
               and-white documentary.

                                     ROSE
                         They're going up to Dallas... to 
                         whack Kennedy.  Friday the 22nd, 
                         that's when they're going to do it.  
                         In Dealey Plaza.  They're gonna whack 
                         him!  You gotta call somebody, these 
                         are serious fuckin' guys.

                                     DOCTOR
                              (to the police officer)
                         Higher'n a kite on something.  Been 
                         like this since she came in.

               BACK TO DOCUMENTARY IMAGES

               We see the last close-ups of Kennedy shaking hands on the 
               tarmac at Love Field, smiling, into the motorcade... the 
               downtown streets of Dallas, people packing the sidewalks 
               clear back to the buildings, hanging out of windows ten 
               stories up, schoolgirls surging out into the street in front 
               of the car.  The President is wildly popular - except for 
               the occasional posters calling for his arrest for treason...

                                     VOICE 7
                         More rumors emerge of J.F.K.'s 
                         backdoor efforts outside usual State 
                         Department and CIA channels to 
                         establish dialogue with Fidel Castro 
                         through contacts at the United Nations 
                         in New York.  Kennedy is seeking 
                         change on all fronts.  Bitter battles 
                         are fought with Southern 
                         segregationists to get James Meredith 
                         into the University of Mississippi.  
                         Three months after Kennedy submits a 
                         sweeping civil rights bill to 
                         Congress, Martin Luther King leads 
                         250,000 in a march on Washington.  
                         Robert Kennedy, as Attorney General, 
                         for the first time ever vigorously 
                         prosecutes the Mafia in American 
                         life, bringing and winning a record 
                         number of cases - 288 convictions of 
                         organized crime figures including 13 
                         grand juries against Jimmy Hoffa and 
                         his Teamsters Union.  The President 
                         also takes on Big Business, forcing 
                         back steel prices, winning 45 of 46 
                         antitrust cases during 1963 and he 
                         wants to help everyday taxpayers by 
                         ending age- old business privileges 
                         like the oil depletion allowance and 
                         the fees paid to the Federal Reserve 
                         Bank for printing America's currency.
                         Revolutionary changes are foreseen 
                         after J.F.K.'s assumed re-election 
                         in 1964.  Foremost in the political 
                         consciousness of the country is the 
                         possibility of a Kennedy dynasty.  
                         Robert Kennedy in '68, Teddy Kennedy 
                         in '76.  In November, 1963 John 
                         Kennedy travels to Texas, his 
                         popularity sagging to 59% largely 
                         due to his civil rights stand for 
                         which he is particularly hated in 
                         the South.  Texas is a crucial state
                         for him to carry in '64.  With him 
                         is Vice-President, Lyndon Johnson 
                         and Texas Governor John Connally.  
                         On November 21, they visit Houston 
                         and San Antonio.  On the morning of 
                         November 22, he speaks in Fort Worth, 
                         then flies 15 minutes to Love Field 
                         in Dallas, where he takes a motorcade 
                         through downtown Dallas on his way 
                         to speak at 12:30 at the International 
                         Trade Mart.  Later, the motorcade 
                         takes him through Dealey Plaza at 
                         12:30...

               DEALEY PLAZA - THAT DAY (NOV. 22, 1963)

               We see a massive overhead shot of the Plaza as it lay then.  
               Credits conclude under shot - and we have the subtitle 
               "November 22, 1963."

               A young epileptic screams and suddenly collapses near the 
               fountains in front of the Texas School Depository.  He has a 
               violent epileptic fit that attracts surrounding attention.  
               Dallas policemen run over to him.  We hear the siren of an 
               ambulance roaring up.

               TIMECUT TO ambulance loading the epileptic man and taking 
               off.

                                     AMBULANCE VOICE
                         We are en route to Parkland.

               BACK TO a montage of the shooting.  We see Kennedy, in the 
               last seconds, waving, turning the corner at Houston from 
               Main... We see TV footage and a piece of Zapruder film from 
               before the shooting; fragmented images...

               CUT TO stages shots of crowd people looking on.  The images 
               are grainy to match the tone of the Zapruder film.  People 
               are on rooftops, hollering.  The crowd is wild with 
               enthusiasm.  We pan past Jack Ruby and slam into him in black-
               and-white.  The camera shows a Cuban man with a radio; a man 
               with an umbrella; subliminals.  Through open windows on the 
               fifth floor of the Criminal Courts Building, convicts watch 
               and holler from their jail cells.  We see the sixth floor of 
               the Texas Book Depository with open windows and a vague blur 
               of a figure and a rifle.

               The clock on the Hertz sign reads 12:30.

                                     VOICE
                         We'll be there in about five minutes.

               A motorcycle officer paralleling the Kennedy car tries to 
               use his radio.

               It's jammed.  The sound of the jammed Dictabelt drives the 
               rest of the sequence.

               We see Zapruder, a short middle - aged man, shooting his 8mm 
               film from the Grassy Knoll, and then we see Jackie Kennedy - 
               floating on film, her voice, high, soft:

                                     JACKIE KENNEDY
                              (voice restaged)
                         And in the motorcade, you know I 
                         usually would be waving mostly to 
                         the left side and he was waving mostly 
                         to the right, which is one reason 
                         you're not looking at each other 
                         very much.  And it was terribly hot.  
                         Just blinding all of us... We could 
                         see a tunnel in front of us.  
                         Everything was really slow then.  
                         And I remember thinking it would be 
                         so cool under that tunnel.

               The camera rests on Jackie for a beat, and then we see the 
               shot of the little schoolgirl skipping on the grass.

               CUT TO the approaching overpass.  J.F.K. waves... Mrs. 
               Connally turns to J.F.K.  The shot is crazy, fractured, 
               surreal.

                                     MRS. CONNALLY (V.O.)
                         Mr. President, you can't say that 
                         Dallas doesn't love you.

                                     JFK (V.O.)
                         No, you certainly can't.

               Then we hear the shots: the volley sounds like a motorcycle 
               backfire.  We catch a glimpse of a muzzle flash and smoke.  
               We see a view from the street of the Texas School Book 
               Depository - all in line with the "official" version of 
               events.  Pigeons by the hundreds suddenly shoot off the roof.  
               Then the screen goes gray as did CBS TV's first bulletins to 
               the country.

                                     CBS BULLETIN
                              (full screen)
                         We interrupt this program to bring 
                         you this flash bulletin.  A burst of 
                         gunfire!  Three bursts of gunfire, 
                         apparently from automatic weapons, 
                         were fired at President Kennedy's 
                         motorcade in downtown Dallas.

               We hear voices under this from everywhere, colliding in 
               confusion and horror:

                                     VOICES
                         OH NO!  MY GOD THEY'RE GOING TO KILL 
                         US ALL!  Be still.  You're going to 
                         be all right.  LET'S GET OUT OF HERE.  
                         WE'RE HIT!  LAWSON, THIS IS KELLERMAN.  
                         WE ARE HIT.  GET US TO THE HOSPITAL 
                         IMMEDIATELY.  PULL OUT OF THE 
                         MOTORCADE.  TAKE US TO THE NEAREST 
                         HOSPITAL.

                                     JACKIE KENNEDY VOICE
                         Oh, no, they've shot Jack... I love 
                         you, Jack... Jack... they've killed 
                         my husband...

                                     CBS BULLETIN (V.O.)
                         The first reports say that President 
                         Kennedy has been seriously wounded 
                         by the shooting.  More details just 
                         arrived.  United Press say the wounds 
                         to President Kennedy perhaps could 
                         be fatal.  Repeating: President 
                         Kennedy has been shot by a would-be 
                         assassin in Dallas.  Three bursts of 
                         gunfire, apparently from automatic 
                         weapons...

                                     VOICES
                              (blending under)
                         IT CAME FROM THERE.  SECURE THAT 
                         AREA BEHIND THE FENCE.  IT'S THAT 
                         BUILDING UP THERE.

               We hear sirens and screeching tires.  The screen is still 
               gray, randomly intercut with the end of the Nix film showing 
               the car escaping.  There are wildly tracking shots of the 
               crowd running towards the Grassy Knoll.

               The camera pans up the little set of stairs.  We see more 
               faces.

               Someone in a suit stops our camera.  Secret Service?

               We see the briefest glimpse from the Zapruder film.  The 
               camera moves in on the open umbrella next, then to the freeway 
               sign, then to Mrs. Kennedy out of the car reaching for help, 
               then to the agent rushing onto the rear fender.  The car 
               finally speeds away.  The people on the other side of the 
               underpass wave at the oncoming hearse from hell.  (These are 
               fragmented, mystifying shots.  The main effect is one of 
               blackout - of not knowing; of being in the dark, as we all 
               were back then.)

               CUT TO JIM GARRISON'S OFFICE - NEW ORLEANS - SAME DAY (1963)

               Pause.  The lovely old china clock on the wall reads 12:35.  
               Somewhere a car backfires.  We see a close-up of the clock 
               moving to 12:36.  We hear the sound of a pen on paper, 
               scratching... We see a shot of Jim Garrison as a young air 
               pilot in World War II; hear the sound of airplanes.  The 
               camera moves to framed photos of Jim as a young, Lincolnesque 
               lawyer... we hear sounds of political rallies, cheering... a 
               shot of Jim's grandfather shaking hands with President William 
               Taft.  The sound of bulldozers carries us to a shot of Jim 
               staring at piles of decaying corpses at Dachau... a photo of 
               Clarence Darrow... a law degree and an appointment as District 
               Attorney of the New Orleans Parish... Mother Garrison with 
               young Jim on the desk... another family - his own.  We look 
               across the thick desk with the chess set, A Complete

               Works of William Shakespeare and a Nazi helmet with a bullet 
               hole in it... to Jim himself writing - pen to paper.  We 
               sense the quiet intellect of the 43 year old man.  The clock 
               ticks in the awful suspended silence.

               It's as if the air itself has been sucked from the silent 
               room.  This is the last moment of peace before the World 
               will rush through the door in all its sound and fury - to 
               change his life forever.  The camera haywires into a close-
               up of Jim as he looks up... and knows.

               Lou Ivon, Jim's chief investigator, is already standing there 
               in the room.  He is burly, in his 30s - his expression 
               universal for that day.

                                     JIM
                         What's wrong, Lou?

                                     LOU
                         Boss, the President's been shot.  In 
                         Dallas.  Five minutes ago.

               Jim is stunned.  His look of horror and shock speaks the 
               same language as on faces all across America that Black 
               Friday.

                                     JIM
                         Oh no!... How bad?

                                     LOU
                         No word yet.  But they think it's in 
                         the head.

               Jim gets up, heading rapidly for the door.

                                     JIM
                         Come on.  Napoleon's has a TV set.

               NAPOLEON'S RESTAURANT - THE QUARTER - DAY(1963)

               The midday customers all stare solemnly at the TV set high 
               in the corner of the cafe.  The manager, ashen, serves drinks 
               to Jim and Lou.

                                     NEWSMAN 1
                         Apparently three bullets were found.  
                         Governor Connally also appeared to 
                         be hit.  The President was rushed by 
                         the Secret Service to Parkland 
                         Memorial Hospital four miles from 
                         Dealey Plaza.

               We are told a bullet entered the base of the throat and came 
               out of the backside, but there is no confirmation, blood 
               transfusions are being given, a priest has administered the 
               last rites.

                                     JIM
                         There's still a chance, dammit!  
                         Come on, Jack - pull through.

                                     MANAGER
                              (Italian, distracted)
                         I don't believe it.  I don't believe 
                         it.  Here, in this country.

               They all look up, expectant, as Walter Cronkite interrupts 
               on the TV:

                                     WALTER CRONKITE
                         From Dallas, Texas - the flash 
                         apparently official, President Kennedy 
                         died at 1 p.m.  Central Standard 
                         Time, 2 o'clock Eastern Standard 
                         Time, some 38 minutes ago.
                              (choked pause)
                         Vice-President Johnson has left the 
                         hospital in Dallas, but we do not 
                         know to where he has proceeded.  
                         Presumably, he will be taking the 
                         oath of office shortly, and become 
                         the 36th President of the United 
                         States.

               There are sounds of shock, muttering, some sobbing in the 
               restaurant.  Lou gulps down his drink.  Jim sits stunned.

                                     JIM
                         I didn't always agree with him - too 
                         liberal for my tastes - but I 
                         respected him.  He had style... God, 
                         I'm ashamed to be an American today.

               He holds back the tears.  The food comes.  Lou waves it off.  
               They just sit there.

               EXTERIOR KATZENJAMMER'S BAR - SAME DAY(1963)

               Katzenjammer's is an Irish working class bar across Canal 
               St. In a seedy area near the Mississippi River, just off 
               Lafayette Square.

               INTERIOR KATZENJAMMER'S BAR - SAME DAY(1963)

               A variety of loud Irish working men sit on stools watching 
               the TV.  There are a few formica tables with chairs against 
               the walls, and an unused pool table.

                                     NEWSMAN 2
                         Many arrests have been made here 
                         today.  Anyone looking even remotely 
                         suspicious is being detained.  Most 
                         of the crowd has gone home but there 
                         are still many stunned people 
                         wandering around in Dealey Plaza 
                         unable to comprehend what happened 
                         here earlier today.

               On the TV, we see the scene at Dealey Plaza.  The reporter 
               has several men, women, and children gathered around him.  
               He puts his microphone in their faces.

                                     BLACK WOMAN
                              (crying)
                         It's all so terrible.  I jes' can't 
                         stop crying.  He did so much for 
                         this country, for colored people.  
                         Why?

                                     MAN
                              (Bill Newman, with 
                              wife and kids)
                         I grabbed my kids and wife and hit 
                         the ground.  The bullets were coming 
                         over our heads - from that fence 
                         back on the knoll - I was just so 
                         shaken.  I saw his face when it hit... 
                         he just, his ear flew off, he turned 
                         just real white and then went stiff 
                         like a board and flopped over on his 
                         stomach, with his foot sticking out.

               CUT TO the picket fence above the Grassy Knoll.

                                     WOMAN 2
                         I thought... it came from up there, 
                         that building.

               CUT TO the Book Depository.

                                     MAN 2
                         I heard shots from over there.

               CUT TO the County Records Building.

                                     NEWSMAN 2
                         How many shots?

                                     WOMAN 3
                         About 3 to 4... I don't know.

                                     MAN 3
                         I never thought it could happen in 
                         America.

               Back in the bar, the camera moves to two patrons seated at a 
               table by themselves, far enough away not to be heard.  Guy 
               Banister is a sturdy, imposing ex - FBI agent in his 60's, 
               steel gray hair, blue eyes, ruddy from heavy drinking.  He 
               wears a small rosebud in his lapel.  Jack Martin is a thin, 
               mousy man in his mid - 50's, wearing a Dick Tracy hat.

               They're both drinking Wild Turkey heavily.  The TV blares 
               loudly across the room over their voices.

                                     BANISTER
                         All this blubbering over that 
                         sonofabitch!  They're grieving like 
                         they knew the man.  It makes me want 
                         to puke.

                                     MARTIN
                         God's sake, chief.  The President 
                         was shot.

                                     BANISTER
                         A bullshit President!  I don't see 
                         any weeping for all the thousands of 
                         Cubans that bastard condemned to 
                         death and torture at the Bay of Pigs.  
                         Where are all the tears for the 
                         Russians and Hungarians and Chinese 
                         living like slaves in prison camps 
                         run by Kennedy's communist buddies - 
                         All these damned peace treaties!  
                         I'm telling ya Jack, that's what 
                         happens when you let the niggers 
                         vote.  They get together with the 
                         Jews and the Catholics and elect an 
                         Irish bleeding heart.

                                     MARTIN
                         Chief, maybe you had a little too 
                         much to drink.

                                     BANISTER
                         Bullshit!
                              (yells across the 
                              room)
                         Bartender, another round...
                              (finishes drink)
                         Here's to the New Frontier.  Camelot 
                         in smithereens.  I'll drink to that.

               NAPOLEON'S RESTAURANT - DAY(1963)

               Several hours have elapsed.  The clientele has grown, 
               drinking, watching the tube with the insatiable curiosity 
               the event engendered.  People stare in from the street... 
               There is a silence in the restaurant.

               TELEVISION INSERT:  image of a Dallas policeman hauling a 
               Mannlicher - Carcano rifle with a sniperscope over the heads 
               of the press gathered in the police station.

                                     NEWSMAN 3
                         This is the rifle, it is a Mannlicher - 
                         Carcano Italian rifle, a powerful 
                         World War II military gun used by 
                         infantry and highly accurate at 
                         distances of 100 yards.

               We see images of the textbook boxes - the sniper's nest in 
               the sixth story of the Book Depository - and then the view 
               out the window looking down at Elm Street.

                                     NEWSMAN 3
                         The assassin apparently fired from 
                         this perch... but so far no word, 
                         much confusion and...

               CUT TO Newsman 2 at a different location or in studio.

                                     NEWSMAN 4
                         A flash bulletin... the Dallas Police 
                         have just announced they have a 
                         suspect in the killing of a Dallas 
                         police officer, J.D. Tippit, who was 
                         shot at 1:15 in Oak Cliff, a suburb 
                         of Dallas.

               Police are saying there could be a tie - in here to the murder 
               of the President.

               TELEVISION INSERT:  Lee Harvey Oswald, a bruise over his 
               right temple, is apprehended at the Texas Theatre.

                                     NEWSMAN 4
                         The suspect, identified as Lee Harvey 
                         Oswald, was arrested by more than a 
                         dozen police officers after a short 
                         scuffle at the Texas movie theatre 
                         in Oak Cliff, several blocks from 
                         where Officer Tippit was killed, 
                         apparently with a .38 revolver found 
                         on Oswald.  There is apparently at 
                         least one eyewitness.

               TELEVISION INSERT:  Oswald is booked at the station.  A surly 
               young man, 24, he claims to the press:

                                     TV OSWALD
                         No, I don't know what I'm charged 
                         with... I don't know what dispatches 
                         you people have been given, but I 
                         emphatically deny these charges.

                                     VOICE FROM THE BAR
                         They oughta just shoot the bastard.

               The room bursts out with an accumulated fury at the young 
               Oswald - a tremendous release of tension.  On the TV we see 
               the excitement in the newsmen's eyes; they all sense that 
               this is the break they're looking for in the case.

               Garrison and Ivon watch the TV, and then Garrison stands and 
               pays the bill.

                                     LOU
                         One little guy with a cheap rifle - 
                         look what he can do.

                                     JIM
                         Let's get outta here, Lou.  I saw 
                         too much stuff like this in the war.

               As they leave, the camera holds on the image of Oswald.

               MISSISSIPPI RIVER WATERFRONT - TWILIGHT(1963)

               The sun is setting through thunderheads over the Mississippi 
               River waterfront as Banister and Martin wobble out, drunk, 
               down the street.

                                     BANISTER
                         Well, the kid musta gone nuts, right?
                              (Martin says nothing, 
                              looks troubled)
                         I said Oswald must've flipped.  Just 
                         did this crazy thing before anyone 
                         could stop him, right?

                                     MARTIN
                         I think I'll cut out here, chief.  I 
                         gotta get home.

                                     BANISTER
                              (strong-arms Martin)
                         Get home my ass.  We're going to the 
                         office, have another drink.  I want 
                         some company tonight.

               BANISTER'S OFFICE - NIGHT(1963)

               Rain pours down outside 531 Lafayette Street as Banister 
               opens several locks on the door and turns on the lights.  
               The frosted glass on the door says "W. Guy Banister 
               Associates, Inc., Investigators."  It's a typical detective's 
               office with spare desks, simple chairs, large filing cabinets 
               and cubicles in the rear.

                                     BANISTER
                              (repetitive)
                         Who'd ever thought that goofy Oswald 
                         kid would pull off a stunt like an 
                         assassination?
                              (Martin waits)
                         Just goes to show, you can never 
                         know about some people.  Am I right, 
                         Jack?
                              (Martin, frightened 
                              now, doesn't reply)
                         Well, bless my soul.  Your eyes are 
                         as red as two cherries, Jack.  Don't 
                         tell me we have another bleeding 
                         heart here.  Hell, all these years I 
                         thought you were on my side.

                                     MARTIN
                         Chief, sometimes I don't know whether 
                         you're kidding or not.

                                     BANISTER
                         I couldn't be more serious, Jack.  
                         Those big red eyes have me wondering 
                         about your loyalty.

               Banister, going to a file cabinet to get a bottle out, notices 
               one of the file drawers is slightly ajar.  He flies into a 
               rage.

                                     BANISTER
                         Who the hell opened my files!  You've 
                         been looking through my private files, 
                         haven't you, you weasel?

                                     MARTIN
                         You may not like this, chief, but 
                         you're beginning to act paranoid.  I 
                         mean, you really are.

                                     BANISTER
                         You found out about Dave Ferrie going 
                         to Texas today and you went through 
                         all my files to see what was going 
                         on.  You're a goddamn spy.

                                     MARTIN
                              (angry)
                         Goddammit chief, why would I ever 
                         need to look in your files?  I saw 
                         enough here this summer to write a 
                         book.

                                     BANISTER
                         I always lock my files.  And you 
                         were the only one here today...
                              (stops as he hears 
                              Martin)
                         What do you mean, you son of a bitch?

                                     MARTIN
                         You know what I mean.  I saw a lot 
                         of strange things going on in this 
                         office this summer.  And a lotta 
                         strange people.

               Enraged, Banister pulls a .357 Magnum from his holster, 
               cursing as he suddenly slams it into Martin's temple.  The 
               smaller man crumples painfully to the ground.

                                     BANISTER
                         You didn't see a goddamn thing, you 
                         little weasel.  Do you get it?  You 
                         didn't see a goddamn thing.

               JIM GARRISON'S HOME - THAT NIGHT(1963)

               Jim and his wife, Liz, watch the television.  She is in her 
               early 30's, an attractive, quiet southern woman from 
               Louisiana.  They live in a spacious two-story wood house, 
               suburban in feel.

               TELEVISION IMAGE: Reporters are jammed in the Assembly Room 
               of the Dallas Police Headquarters as Oswald is brought through 
               the corridor, officers on either side of him.

                                     NEWSMAN 5
                              (over the din)
                         Did you shoot the President?

                                     TV OSWALD
                         I didn't shoot anybody, no sir.  I'm 
                         just a patsy.

               The camera moves onto Jim with Liz and the children - Jasper, 
               the oldest at 4, holds his dad's hand.  On Liz's lap, Snapper, 
               the youngest, is asleep.  Virginia, the 2-year-old, is 
               pestering the Boxer dog... and Mattie, the heavyset black 
               housekeeper, 35, is in tears.

                                     LIZ
                         My god, he sure looks like a creep.  
                         What's he talkin' 'bout... a patsy?

               TELEVISION IMAGE: Oswald in front of the cameras, on a 
               platform.

                                     TV OSWALD
                         Well, I was questioned by a judge.  
                         However, I protested at the time 
                         that I was not allowed legal 
                         representation during that very short 
                         and sweet hearing.  Uh, I really 
                         don't know what the situation is 
                         about.  Nobody has told me anything 
                         except that I am accused of, uh, 
                         murdering a policeman.  I know nothing 
                         more than that and I do request that 
                         someone come forward to give me, uh, 
                         legal assistance.

                                     NEWSMAN 5
                         Did you kill the President?

                                     TV OSWALD
                         No.  I have not been charged with 
                         that.  In fact nobody has said that 
                         to me yet.  The first thing I heard 
                         about it was when the newspaper 
                         reporters in the hall, uh, asked me 
                         that question.

                                     NEWSMAN 6
                         You have been charged.

                                     TV OSWALD
                         Sir?

                                     NEWSMAN 6
                         You have been charged.

               Oswald seems shocked.

                                     NEWSMAN 5
                         Were you ever in the Free Cuba 
                         Movement or whatever the...

                                     RUBY
                              (a voice in the back)
                         It was the Fair Play for Cuba 
                         Committee.

               Oswald looks over and spots Ruby in the back of the room, on 
               a table.  Recognition is in his eyes.  The police start to 
               move him out.

                                     NEWSMAN 6
                         What did you do in Russia?  What 
                         happened to your eye?

                                     TV OSWALD
                         A policeman hit me.

                                     GARRISON
                         He seems pretty cool to me for a man 
                         under pressure like that.

                                     LIZ
                         Icy, you mean.
                              (shudders)
                         He gives me the willies... come on 
                         sugarplums, it's past your bedtimes...
                              (to Jim)
                         Come on, let's go upstairs.
                              (rises)
                         Mattie - get ahold of yourself.

                                     MATTIE
                         Why, Mr. Jim?  He was a great man, 
                         Mr. Jim, a great man...

               Jim is moved by her.

               TELEVISION IMAGE: Texas D.A. Henry Wade addresses the 
               journalists.

                                     TV WADE
                         There is no one else but him.  He 
                         has been charged in the Supreme Court 
                         with murder with malice.  We're gonna 
                         ask for the death penalty.

               Jim moves to the phone as Liz starts the kids up the stairs.  
               The TV cuts to stills of Oswald's life.  Two newsmen sit in 
               a studio, smoking, sharing information.

                                     FRANK
                              (Newsman 7)
                         So several hours after the 
                         assassination, a disturbed portrait 
                         is emerging of Lee Harvey Oswald.  
                         Described as shy and introverted, he 
                         spent much of his childhood in New 
                         Orleans, Louisiana and went to high 
                         school there.  After a stint in the 
                         Marines, he apparently became 
                         fascinated by Communism and in 1959 
                         defected to the Soviet Union.

                                     BOB
                              (Newsman 8)
                         He married a Russian woman there, 
                         Frank, had a child, and then returned 
                         to the United States after 30 months.  
                         But he is still believed to be a 
                         dedicated Marxist and a fanatical 
                         supporter of Fidel Castro and ultra 
                         left wing causes.  He spent last 
                         summer in New Orleans and was arrested 
                         in a brawl with anti-Castro Cuban 
                         exiles.

                                     FRANK
                              (Newsman 7)
                         And apparently, Bob, Oswald had been 
                         passing out pro-Castro pamphlets for 
                         an organization called Fair Play for 
                         Cuba, a Communist front he reportedly 
                         belongs to.

                                     BOB
                              (Newsman 8)
                         And we have Marina Oswald, his Russian-
                         born wife, who has identified the 
                         rifle found in the Book Depository 
                         as belonging to her husband.  And we 
                         have...

               TELEVISION IMAGES: Kennedy's casket coming off the plane in 
               Washington D.C. play under the newsman... Jackie stands there 
               in her blood-spotted dress... we cut to the photograph of 
               L.B.J. taking the oath of office earlier that day... and a 
               still photo of Robert Kennedy's reaction...

                                     JIM
                              (on the phone)
                         Lou, I'm sorry to disturb you this 
                         late...  yeah, matter of routine but 
                         we better get on this New Orleans 
                         connection of Oswald's right away.  
                         Check out his record, find any friends 
                         or associates from last summer.  
                         Let's meet with the senior assistants 
                         and investigators day after tomorrow, 
                         Sunday, yeah, at 11... Thanks Lou.

               GARRISON CONFERENCE ROOM - 2 DAYS LATER - DAY(1963)

               Jim is with his key players: Lou Ivon, chief investigator; 
               Susie Cox, in her 30's, and efficient, attractive Assistant 
               D.A.; La Oser, Assistant D.A. in his 40's, serious, 
               spectacled; Bill Broussard, Assistant D.A., handsome, 
               volatile, in his 30's; Numa Bertell, D.A. in his 30's, chubby 
               and friendly, and several others.  They sit around a 
               conference table with a black-and-white portable TV on a 
               side table showing the current Sunday, November 24 news from 
               Dallas.

                                     MARINA OSWALD
                              (on TV)
                         Lee good man... he not shoot anyone.

               Camera moves to Lou Ivon, looking at paperwork.

                                     LOU
                         As far as Oswald's associates, boss, 
                         the one name that keeps popping up 
                         is David Ferrie.

               Oswald was seen with him several times last summer.

                                     JIM
                         I know David - a strange character.

                                     LOU
                         He's been in trouble before.  Used 
                         to be a hot shot pilot for Eastern 
                         Airlines, but he got canned after an 
                         alleged homosexual incident with a 
                         14-year old boy.

                                     BILL
                              (on phone, excited)
                         Get Kohlman... he told somebody the 
                         Texas trip... yesterday mentioned to 
                         somebody about Ferrie... find it 
                         out.

               On the TV we see the first image of the "backyard photos" of 
               Lee Harvey Oswald holding the rifle.

                                     NEWSMAN 1
                         These backyard photos were found 
                         yesterday among Oswald's possessions 
                         in the garage of Janet William's 
                         home in Riving, Texas, where Marina 
                         Oswald and her children are living.  
                         The picture apparently was taken 
                         earlier this year.  Police say the 
                         rifle, a cheap World War II Italian-
                         made Mannlicher-Carcano, was ordered 
                         from a Chicago mailing house and 
                         shipped to Oswald's alias A. Hidell 
                         at a post office box in March, 1963.  
                         This is the same rifle that was used 
                         to assassinate the President.

               The camera moves back to the staff, who watch, obviously 
               influenced.

                                     COX
                         That ties it up...

                                     NUMA
                         Another nut.  Jesus, anybody can get 
                         a rifle in Texas.

                                     BILL
                              (hangs up)
                         So it seems that Dave Ferrie drove 
                         off on a Friday afternoon for Texas - 
                         a source told Kohlman he might have 
                         been a getaway pilot for Oswald.

               Members of the team exchange looks of surprise and disbelief.

                                     JIM
                         Hold your horses.  What kinda source?

                                     BILL
                              (grins)
                         The anonymous kind, Chief.

                                     OSER
                         I think I remember this guy Ferrie 
                         speaking at a meeting of some 
                         veteran's group.  Ranting against 
                         Castro.  Extreme stuff.

                                     NEWSMAN 1
                         We go back now to the basement of 
                         police headquarters where they're 
                         about to transfer Oswald to County 
                         Prison...

               TELEVISION IMAGE: The basement of the Dallas police 
               headquarters - waiting.  Men mill around as Oswald is led 
               out of the basement by two deputies.  Jack Ruby rushes forward 
               out of the crowd - and into history - putting his sealing 
               bullet into Oswald.  Total chaos erupts...

               The camera is on the staff, looking.  We hear gasps.

                                     ANNOUNCER
                         He's been shot!  Oswald's been shot!

                                     VARIOUS VOICES
                         Goddamn!  Look at that... Look at 
                         that... I don't believe this... Right 
                         on TV!  What is going on?  Who is 
                         this guy... oh Jesus.

               Jim is silent.

                                     LOU
                         Seventy cops in that basement.  What 
                         the hell were they doing?

                                     NEWSMAN 1
                         Jack Ruby... Who is Jack Ruby?  Oswald 
                         is hurt.

               We see images of Oswald being lifted onto the stretcher, 
               into the ambulance, and the newscaster crouching, whispering.  
               Everybody in the room is stunned still.

                                     LOU
                         Well, no trial now.  Looks like 
                         somebody saved the Dallas D.A. a 
                         pile of work.

               They look to Jim.  There's a pause.  He is deeply disturbed.

                                     JIM
                              (quietly)
                         Well, let's get Ferrie in here anyway.

               GARRISON OFFICE - NEXT DAY - DAY(1963)

               The portable television plays to Jim alone, sitting in his 
               chair smoking a pipe.  We see searing images of the funeral - 
               crowds of mourners, the casket being driven through the 
               streets, the honor guards, the horses, the dignitaries walking 
               behind, Jackie veiled... the faces of De Gaulle, MacMillan, 
               Robert Kennedy.  We intercut briefly to Lyndon Johnson sitting 
               down earlier that day with the Joint Chiefs of Staff... and 
               then a future cut to Johnson in the Oval Office (staged).  
               The shots are very tight, uncomfortable - noses, eyes, hands - 
               very tight.

               As the door opens following a knock, David Ferrie is brought 
               into Jim's office by two police officers and Lou Ivon.  Jim 
               stands up, cordial.

                                     LOU
                         Chief... David Ferrie.

               Ferrie suffers from alopecia, a disease that has removed all 
               his body hair, and he looks like a Halloween character - 
               penciled eyebrows, one higher than the other, a scruffy 
               reddish wig pasted on askew with glue, thrift store clothing.  
               His eyes, however, are swift and cunning, his smile warm, 
               inviting itself, his demeanor hungry to please.

                                     JIM
                              (shakes hands)
                         Come in, Dave.  Have a seat, make 
                         yourself comfortable.  Coffee?

                                     FERRIE
                         Do you remember me, Mr. Garrison?  I 
                         met you on Carondolet Street right 
                         after your election.  I congratulated 
                         you, remember?

                                     JIM
                         How could I forget?  You make quite 
                         a first impression.
                              (on intercom)
                         Sharon, could you please bring us 
                         some coffee?
                              (Ferrie laughs; pause)
                         I've heard over the years you're 
                         quite a first-rate pilot, Dave.  
                         Legend has it you can get in and out 
                         of any field, no matter how small...
                              (Jim points to the 
                              pictures on his wall)
                         I'm a bit of a pilot myself, you 
                         know.  Flew grasshoppers for the 
                         field artillery in the war.

               Ferrie glimpses the low-volumed TV - and images of the 
               funeral.  He looks away, jittery, and takes out a cigarette.  
               Sharon brings the coffee in.

                                     FERRIE
                         Do you mind if I smoke, Mr. Garrison?

                                     JIM
                              (holds up his pipe)
                         How could I?  Dave, as you know, 
                         President Kennedy was assassinated 
                         on Friday.  A man named Lee Harvey 
                         Oswald was arrested as a suspect and 
                         then was murdered yesterday by a man 
                         named Jack Ruby.
                              (on each name, watching 
                              Ferrie's reaction)
                         We've heard reports that Oswald spent 
                         the summer in New Orleans and we've 
                         been advised you knew Oswald pretty 
                         well.

                                     FERRIE
                         That's not true.  I never met anybody 
                         named Oswald.  Anybody who told you 
                         that has to be crazy.

                                     JIM
                         But you are aware, he served in your 
                         Civil Air Patrol unit when he was a 
                         teenager.

                                     FERRIE
                         No... if he did, I don't remember 
                         him.  There were lots of kids in and 
                         out... y'know.

                                     JIM
                              (hands him a current 
                              newspaper)
                         I'm sure you've seen this.  Perhaps 
                         you knew this man under another name?

                                     FERRIE
                         No, I never saw him before in my 
                         life.

                                     JIM
                         Well that must've been mistaken 
                         information we got.  Thanks for 
                         straightening it out for us.
                              (puffs on pipe, Ferrie 
                              looks relieved; images 
                              of the funeral 
                              continue on the TV)
                         There is one other matter that's 
                         come up, Dave.  We were told you 
                         took a trip to Texas shortly after 
                         the assassination of Friday.

                                     FERRIE
                         Yeah, now that's true.  I drove to 
                         Houston.

                                     JIM
                         What was so appealing about Houston?

                                     FERRIE
                         I hadn't been there ice skating in 
                         many years, and I had a couple of 
                         young friends with me, and we decided 
                         we wanted to go ice skating.

                                     JIM
                         Dave, may I ask why the urge to go 
                         ice skating in Texas happened to 
                         strike you during one of the most 
                         violent thunderstorms in recent 
                         memory?

                                     FERRIE
                         Oh, it was just a spur of the moment 
                         thing...  the storm wasn't that bad.

                                     JIM
                         I see.  And where did you drive?

                                     FERRIE
                         We went straight to Houston, and 
                         then Saturday night we drove to 
                         Galveston and stayed over there.

                                     JIM
                         Why Galveston?

                                     FERRIE
                         No particular reason.  Just to go 
                         somewhere.

                                     JIM
                         And then Sunday?

                                     FERRIE
                         In the morning we went goose hunting.  
                         Then headed home, but I dropped the 
                         boys off to see some relatives and I 
                         stayed in Hammond.

                                     JIM
                         Did you bag any geese on this trip?

                                     FERRIE
                         I believe the boys got a couple.

                                     JIM
                         But the boys told us they didn't get 
                         any.

                                     FERRIE
                              (fidgeting, lighting 
                              another cigarette)
                         Oh yes, well, come to think of it, 
                         they're right.  We got to where the 
                         geese were and there were thousands 
                         of them.  But you couldn't approach 
                         them.  They were a wise bunch of 
                         birds.

                                     JIM
                         Your young friends also told us you 
                         had no weapons in the car.  Dave, 
                         isn't it a bit difficult to hunt for 
                         geese without a shotgun?

                                     FERRIE
                         Yes, now I remember, Mr. Garrison.  
                         I'm sorry, I got confused.  We got 
                         out there near the geese and it was 
                         only then we realized we'd forgotten 
                         our shotguns.  Stupid, right?  So of 
                         course we didn't get any geese.

                                     JIM
                         I see.
                              (stands up)
                         Dave thank you for your time.  I'm 
                         sorry it has to end inconveniently 
                         for you, but I'm going to have you 
                         detained for further questioning by 
                         the FBI.

                                     FERRIE
                              (shaken)
                         Why?  What's wrong?

                                     JIM
                         Dave, I find your story simply not 
                         believable.

               Lou and the two cops escort Ferrie out of the office as Jim 
               turns to the television image of Kennedy's final moments of 
               rest.  The bugler plays taps.  John Jr., 3 years old, in an 
               image which will become famous, salutes his Dad farewell.  
               The riderless horse stands lonely against the Washington 
               sky.

               FBI OFFICE - NEW ORLEANS - NEXT DAY(1963)

               At a small press conference, the FBI spokesman reads a 
               statement.

                                     FBI SPOKESMAN
                         Gentlemen, this afternoon the FBI 
                         released David W. Ferrie of New 
                         Orleans.  After extensive questioning 
                         and a thorough background check, the 
                         Bureau found no evidence that...

               GARRISON'S OFFICE - SIMULTANEOUS WITH PREVIOUS SCENE

               In Garrison's office see the same broadcast, on the portable 
               television.  Lou, Broussard, Numa and Jim watch.

                                     FBI SPOKESMAN
                              (on TV)
                         ...Mr. Ferrie knew Lee Harvey Oswald 
                         or that he has had any connection 
                         with the assassination of President 
                         Kennedy.  The Special Agent in Charge 
                         would like to make clear that Mr. 
                         Ferrie was brought in for questioning 
                         by the District Attorney of Orleans 
                         parish, not by the Federal Bureau of 
                         Investigation.  The Bureau regrets 
                         any trouble this may have caused Mr. 
                         Ferrie...

                                     NEWSMAN 9
                         In national news, President Johnson 
                         has announced the creation of a blue 
                         ribbon presidential commission to 
                         probe the events in Dallas.

               Lou looks at Jim, angry.

                                     LOU
                         Correct me if I'm wrong.  I thought 
                         we were on the same side.  What the 
                         hell business is it of theirs to say 
                         that?

                                     BILL
                         Pretty fast, wasn't it.  The way 
                         they let him go.

                                     JIM
                         They must know something we don't.
                              (dismisses it)
                         So, let's get on with our lives, 
                         gentlemen... we got plenty of home 
                         grown crimes to prosecute.

               He reaches to turn off the TV and get back to work.  The 
               last image on the TV is:

                                     NEWSMAN 9
                         The Commission will be headed by 
                         Chief Justice of the United States 
                         Supreme Court, Earl Warren, and is 
                         expected to head off several 
                         Congressional and Texas inquiries 
                         into the assassination.  On the panel 
                         are Allen Dulles, ex-chief of the 
                         CIA, Representative Gerald Ford, 
                         John J. McCloy, former head of Chase 
                         Manhattan Bank...

               Jim flicks the TV off as the overture ends.

               AERIAL SHOT - WASHINGTON, D.C. - DAY(1966)

               We look down at the White House from the plane's point of 
               view.  A subtitle reads: "THREE YEARS LATER."

               INTERIOR OF PLANE

                                     SENATOR RUSSELL LONG
                              (looking out the window)
                         That's a mess down there, Jim.  We've 
                         bitten off more "Vietnam" that we 
                         can possibly chew.

               Jim, now 46, reads the front page of THE WASHINGTON POST 
               which details the latest battle in Vietnam.  He sits next to 
               Senator Long from Louisiana, in his 50's, who's drinking a 
               whiskey.  They're on a crowded businessman's shuttle.  We 
               see a close-up of a newspaper article about the Vietnam war: 
               "more troops asked by Westmoreland."

                                     LONG
                              (continuing)
                         Sad thing is the way it's screwing 
                         up this country, all these hippies 
                         running around on drugs, the way 
                         young people look you can't tell a 
                         boy from a girl anymore.  I saw a 
                         girl the other day, she was pregnant - 
                         you could see her whole belly, and 
                         you know what she painted on it?  
                         "Love Child."  It's fuckin' outa 
                         control.  Values've gone to hell, 
                         Jim... Course it figures when you 
                         got somebody like that polecat Johnson 
                         in the White House.

                                     JIM
                         I sometimes feel things've gone 
                         downhill since John Kennedy was 
                         killed, Senator.

                                     LONG
                         Don't get me started on that.  Those 
                         Warren Commission fellows were pickin' 
                         gnat shit out of pepper.  No one's 
                         gonna tell me that kid did the 
                         shooting job he did from that damned 
                         bookstore.

                                     STEWARDESS
                         Here you go, Senator Long.

               The stewardess brings more drinks.

                                     JIM
                              (surprised)
                         I thought the FBI test-fired the 
                         rifle to make sure it could be done?

                                     LONG
                         Sure, three experts and not one of 
                         them could do it!  They're telling 
                         us Oswald got off three shots with 
                         world-class precision from a manual 
                         bolt action rifle in less than six 
                         seconds - and accordin' to his Marine 
                         buddies he got Maggie's drawers - he 
                         wasn't any good.  Average man would 
                         be lucky to get two shots off, and I 
                         tell ya the first shot would always 
                         be the best.  Here, the third shot's 
                         perfect.  Don't make sense.  And 
                         then they got that crazy bullet 
                         zigzagging all over the place so it 
                         hits Kennedy and Connally seven times.  
                         One "pristine" bullet?  That dog 
                         don't hunt.

                                     JIM
                         You know, something always bothered 
                         me about that from day one, and I 
                         can't put my finger on it.

                                     LONG
                         If I were investigatin', I'd round 
                         up the 100 best riflemen in the world 
                         and find out which ones were in Dallas 
                         that day.  You been duck hunting?  I 
                         think Oswald was a good old-fashioned 
                         decoy.  What'd he say?  "I'm just a 
                         patsy."  Out of the mouth of babes 
                         y'ask me.

                                     JIM
                         You think there were other men 
                         involved, Russell?

               Russell looks at Jim quizzically and laughs.

                                     LONG
                         Hell, you're the District Attorney.  
                         You read the Warren Report - and 
                         then you tell me you're satisfied 
                         Lee Oswald shot the President all by 
                         his lonesome.

                                     JIM
                         Russell, honestly you sound like one 
                         of those kooky critics spreading 
                         paranoia like prairie fire.  I just 
                         can't believe the Chief Justice of 
                         the United States would put his name 
                         on something that wasn't true.

                                     LONG
                              (to the stewardess)
                         Honey, another one of these.  This 
                         one's as weak as cricket pee-pee.  
                         Yessir, you mark my words, Jim, 
                         Vietnam's gonna cost Johnson '68 and 
                         it's gonna put that other varmint 
                         Nixon in - then watch your hide, 
                         'cause there ain't no offramps on a 
                         freeway to Hell!

               GARRISON'S STUDY - NIGHT(1966)

               The study is lined with bookshelves up to the ceiling; we 
               see photos of family, a chess set.  Jim, smoking his pipe, 
               reads in a red leather chair from one of the 26 thick Warren 
               Commission volumes piled all over the place.  Liz enters.  
               Jasper, now 7, draws on a piece of paper on the floor at 
               Jim's feet.

                                     LIZ
                         Jim, dinner's just about ready... 
                         I've got a surprise for you... tried 
                         something new... Jim?  Jim, dinner.

                                     JIM
                              (lost in thought)
                         Mmmmm... sure smells good... but 
                         Egghead, do you realize Oswald was 
                         interrogated for twelve hours after 
                         the assassination, with no lawyer 
                         present, and nobody recorded a word 
                         of it?  I can't believe it.  A police 
                         captain with 30 years experience and 
                         a crowd of Federal agents just had 
                         to know that with no record anything 
                         that Oswald said would be inadmissible 
                         in court.

                                     LIZ
                         Come on now, we'll talk about it at 
                         the table, dinner's getting cold.
                              (to Jasper)
                         What are you doing in here?

                                     JASPER
                         Daddy said it was all right if I was 
                         real quiet.

                                     JIM
                              (rising to dinner)
                         Sure it is.  Freckle Face, if I ever 
                         handled a minor felon like that, 
                         it'd be all over the papers.  I'd 
                         catch hell.  And this is the alleged 
                         murderer of the President?

               GARRISON DINING ROOM - (1966)

               Two-year-old Elizabeth watches "Crusader Rabbit" on TV as 
               the new one-year-old sits in diapers with Liz at one end of 
               the dinner table.  Jim sits at the other end.  There are 
               five kids now, ages 7, 5, 4, 2 and 1... and Mattie, the 
               housekeeper.  Dinner's finished, they pass plates, the 
               children horse around... the boxer dog, Touchdown, begs for 
               a piece of the action.  Jim, not a big eater, feeds him ice 
               cream.

                                     JIM
                         Again and again they ignore credible 
                         testimony, leads are never followed 
                         up, its conclusions are selective, 
                         there's no index, it's one of the 
                         sloppiest, most disorganized 
                         investigations I've ever seen.  Dozens 
                         and dozens of witnesses in Dealey 
                         Plaza that day are saying they heard 
                         shots coming from the Grassy Knoll 
                         area in front of Kennedy and not the 
                         Book Depository behind him, but it's 
                         all broken down and spread around 
                         and you read it and the point gets 
                         lost.

                                     MATTIE
                         I never did believe it either!

                                     LIZ
                              (politely listening)
                         Uh huh... Mattie, I'll do the dishes, 
                         you take Be up now.  And Elizabeth, 
                         too, your bedtime, honey.

                                     ELIZABETH JR.
                         Nahhhh!  I don't wanna go to bed!

                                     LIZ
                         Honey, that was three years ago - we 
                         all tried so hard to put that out of 
                         our minds, why are you digging it up 
                         again?  You're the D.A. of New 
                         Orleans.  Isn't the Kennedy 
                         assassination a bit outside your 
                         domain?  I mean all those important 
                         people already studied it.

                                     JIM
                         I can't believe a man as intelligent 
                         as Earl Warren ever read what's in 
                         those volumes.

                                     LIZ
                         Well maybe you're right, Jim.  I'll 
                         give you one hour to solve the case... 
                         until the kids are in bed.
                              (rising, she puts her 
                              arms around him from 
                              behind and kisses 
                              his ear)
                         Then you're mine and Mr. Kennedy can 
                         wait 'til morning.  Come on, everybody 
                         say goodnight to Daddy.

                                     JASPER
                              (showing his drawing)
                         Dad, look what I drew.

                                     JIM
                              (rising)
                         That's something, Jasper.  What is 
                         it?

                                     JASPER
                         A rhinoceros.  Can I stay up another 
                         hour?

               Virginia and Snapper each get one of Jim's shoes as he dances 
               with them, holding one with each hand.

                                     JIM
                              (dancing)
                         Pickle and Snapper, my two favorite 
                         dancing partners.

               As the children dance, they fall off Jim's feet, laughing 
               and giggling.  He throws each in the air and kisses them.

                                     JIM
                         Goodnight, my doodle bugs.

                                     KIDS
                         Goodnight, Daddy.

               Liz comes over, smiling.  Jim takes her in his arms.

                                     LIZ
                         One hour, y'hear?  Some Saturday 
                         night date you are.
                              (sighs)
                         Mama warned me this would happen if 
                         I married such a serious man.

                                     JIM
                         Oh, she did, huh?  When I come up 
                         I'll show you how Saturday night got 
                         invented.

               GARRISON STUDY - LATER THAT NIGHT(1966)

               The clock on mantelpiece reads 3 A.M.  Jim is alone, smoking 
               his pipe.

               In the stillness, his mind crawls all over the place.  The 
               camera closes on the thickly-worded pages of the Warren 
               Report.

               FLASHBACK TO the Warren Commission hearing room in Dallas, 
               1964.  We hear thin, echoey sound as the attorneys question 
               some of the witnesses.

               The overall effect is vague and confusing, as is much of the 
               Warren Report.  A Mr. Ball is questioning Lee Bowers, the 
               switchman in the railroad yard.  Bowers, in his early 40's, 
               has a trustworthy, working-man face and a crew cut.

                                     BOWERS
                         I sealed off the area, and I held 
                         off the trains until they could be 
                         examined, and there was some 
                         transients taken on at least one 
                         train.

                                     ATTORNEY
                         Mr. Bowers... is there anything else 
                         you told me I haven't asked you about 
                         that you can think of?

                                     BOWERS
                         Nothing that I can recall.

                                     ATTORNEY
                         Witness is excused.

               Jim, upset, reads on... Another witness, Sgt. D.V. Harkness 
               of the Dallas Police responds to a second attorney.

                                     SGT. HARKNESS
                         Well we got a long freight that was 
                         in there, and we pulled some people 
                         off of there and took them to the 
                         station.

               We see another FLASHBACK - to the Dallas rail yards on the 
               day of the assassination.  Three hoboes are being pulled off 
               the freight by the Dallas policemen.

                                     ATTORNEY (V.O.)
                         You mean some transients?

                                     SGT. HARKNESS (V.O.)
                         Tramps and hoboes.

                                     ATTORNEY (V.O.)
                         Were all those questioned?

               FLASHBACK TO Dealey Plaza an hour or less after the 
               assassination.  The three hoboes are marched by shotgun-toting 
               policemen to the Sheriff's office at Dealey Plaza.  We note 
               that they do not look much like hoboes.

                                     SGT. HARKNESS (V.O.)
                         Yes, sir, they were taken to the 
                         station and questioned.

                                     JIM
                              (astounded)
                         And?
                              (writes "incomplete")

                                     ATTORNEY (V.O.)
                              (switching subjects)
                         I want to go back to this Amos Euins.
                              (voices dribble off)

                                     BOWERS (V.O.)
                         Yes sir, traffic had been cut off 
                         into the area since about 10, but 
                         there were three cars came in during 
                         this time from around noon till the 
                         time of the shooting... the cars 
                         circled the parking lot, and left 
                         like they were checking the area, 
                         one of the drivers seemed to have 
                         something he was holding to his 
                         mouth... the last car came in about 
                         7 to 10 minutes before the shooting, 
                         a white Chevrolet, 4-door Impala, 
                         muddy up to the windows.

               The camera's point of view is now from the railroad tower 
               near Dealey Plaza.  We are fourteen feet off the ground, 
               overlooking the parking lot behind the Grassy Knoll.  The 
               shot includes this last car circling in the lot.

                                     BOWERS
                         Towards the underpass, I saw two men 
                         standing behind a picket fence... 
                         they were looking up towards Main 
                         and Houston and following the caravan 
                         as it came down.  One of them was 
                         middle-aged, heavyset.  The other 
                         man was younger, wearing a plaid 
                         shirt and jacket.

               Inside the railroad tower, Bowers glances out, busy with the 
               main board, flashing lights, a train coming in.

                                     BOWERS
                         There were two other men on the 
                         eastern end of the parking lot.  
                         Each of 'me had uniforms.

               We see the parking lot from Bower's point of view - at a 
               distance, but we have a sense of the cars and see the men at 
               a distance, tow uniformed men.  The parking lot is bumper-to-
               bumper with a sea of cars.  Rain that morning has muddied 
               the lot.  These brief images are elaborated on later.

                                     BOWERS
                         At the time of the shooting there 
                         seemed to be some commotion... I 
                         just am unable to describe - a flash 
                         of light or smoke or something which
                         caused me to feel that something out 
                         of the ordinary had occurred there 
                         on the embankment...

               We feel the growing intensity: music, drums - but all blurred.  
               We see a puff of smoke but no sound because of the window 
               Bowers is glancing through.  A motorcycle cop shoots up the 
               Grassy Knoll incline.  People run, blurring into a larger 
               mosaic of confusion.  Bowers is confused, seeing this.

               INTERCUT with Jim's heart pounding as he reads.

               Back in Dealey Plaza, S.M. Holland, an elderly signal 
               supervisor, stands on the parapet of the railway.

                                     HOLLAND (V.O.)
                         Four shots... a puff of smoke came 
                         from the trees... behind that picket 
                         fence... close to the little plaza - 
                         There's no doubt whatever in my mind.

               We see the scene from Holland's point of view - the puff of 
               smoke lingering under the trees along the picket fence after 
               the shooting.

               GARRISON BEDROOM - ANOTHER NIGHT(1966)

               Jim is asleep, having a tortured dream.

               DREAMSCAPE FLASHBACK: We see the Zapruder film, in slow-motion 
               and J.F.K.'s face just before he goes behind Stemmons Freeway 
               sign.  Jim sits up suddenly.

                                     JIM
                         NO!

               Liz stirs, shaken.

                                     LIZ
                         Honey, you all right?
                              (looks at watch)

                                     JIM
                         It's incredible, honey - the whole 
                         thing.  A Lieutenant Colonel testifies 
                         that Lee Oswald was given a Russian 
                         language exam as part of his Marine 
                         training only a few months before he 
                         defects to the Soviet Union.  A 
                         Russian exam!

                                     LIZ
                              (sitting up, angered)
                         I cannot believe this.  It's four-
                         thirty, Jim Garrison.  I have five 
                         children are gonna be awake in another 
                         hour and ...

                                     JIM
                         Honey, in all my years in the service 
                         I never knew a single man who was 
                         given a Russian test.  Oswald was a 
                         radar operator.  He'd have about as 
                         much use for Russian as a cat has 
                         for pajamas.

                                     LIZ
                         These books are getting to your mind, 
                         Mr. Garrison.  I wish you'd stop 
                         readin' them.

                                     JIM
                         And then this Colonel tries to make 
                         it sound like nothing.  Oswald did 
                         badly on the test, he says.  "He 
                         only had two more Russian words right 
                         than wrong."  Ha!  That's like me 
                         saying Touchdown here...
                              (points to the dog)
                         ...is not very intelligent because I 
                         beat him three games out of five the 
                         last time we played chess.

                                     LIZ
                              (gives up)
                         Jim, what is going on, for heaven's 
                         sake!  You going to stay up all night 
                         every night?  For what?  So you'll 
                         be the only man in America who read 
                         the entire 26 volumes of the Warren 
                         Report?

                                     JIM
                         Liz, do I have to spell it out for 
                         you?  Lee Oswald was no ordinary 
                         soldier.  That was no accident he 
                         was in Russia.  He was probably in 
                         military intelligence.  That's why 
                         he was trained in Russian.

                                     LIZ
                              (with a quizzical 
                              look)
                         Honey, go back to sleep, please!

                                     JIM
                         Goddammit!  I been sleeping for three 
                         years!

               She takes him now, gently, and pulls him down on top of her 
               and kisses him.

                                     LIZ
                         Will you stop rattling on about 
                         Kennedy for a few minutes, honey... 
                         come on.

               LAFAYETTE SQUARE - NEW ORLEANS - MORNING(1966)

               A Sunday, early.  We see a statue of Ben Franklin in an empty 
               square frequented by drunks who doze on benches in a little 
               leafy park in the center of the Square.  The camera moves to 
               Jim by himself and then moves to a sedan, pulling up, which 
               disgorges Lou Ivon and Bill Broussard.

                                     JIM
                         Morning, boys.  Ready for a walking 
                         tour?

                                     BILL
                         At 7:30 Sunday morning?  It's not 
                         exactly fresh blood we're sniffing 
                         here, boss.

                                     JIM
                              (points)
                         Old stains, Bill, but just as telling.

               TIME CUT TO Jim indicating 531 Lafayette Street, a seedy, 
               faded, three-story building across the street from the square.

                                     JIM
                         Remember whose office this was back 
                         in '63?  531 Lafayette Street.

                                     LOU
                         Yeah, Guy Banister.  Ex-FBI man.  He 
                         died couple years ago.

               FLASHBACK TO the exterior of the Banister Office on a day in 
               1963.  The door is now clearly labelled "W. GUY BANISTER, 
               INC. INVESTIGATORS."  It opens and Banister comes out in 
               slow motion, neatly dressed, rose in his lapel - the same 
               office and same man we saw three years before when he pistol-
               whipped Jack Martin.  Banister seems to be smiling right at 
               us, greeting us.

                                     JIM (V.O.)
                         Headed the Chicago office.  When he 
                         retired he became a private eye here.  
                         I used to have lunch with him.  John 
                         Birch Society, Minutemen, slightly 
                         to the right of Attila the Hun.  
                         Used to recruit college students to 
                         infiltrate radical organizations on 
                         campus.  All out of this office.  
                         Now come around here, take a look at 
                         this...

               Back to the Lafayette Square of 1966.  Jim walks Ivon and 
               Bill to the corner, to another entrance to the same building - 
               this one with a sign that says "544 Camp Street."

                                     JIM
                         544 Camp Street.  Same building as 
                         531 Lafayette, right... but different 
                         address and different entrances both 
                         going to the same place - the offices 
                         on the second and third floors.

               Bill studies the present sign: "Crescent City Dental 
               Laboratory", and gives Jim a puzzled look.

                                     JIM
                         Guess who used this address?

               Lou gets it and glances up.  We FLASHBACK TO the exterior of 
               544 Camp Street in 1963.  Lee Oswald comes out the door into 
               a full close-up, now clearly seen by us, and heads out into 
               the street as Guy Banister intercepts him on the sidewalk, 
               holding a leaflet and point to "544 Camp Street stamped on 
               it.  Guy seems miffed at Oswald, tells him something quickly, 
               and then moves on.

                                     BANISTER
                              (under)
                         See this?  What the hell is this 
                         doing on this piece of paper?
                              (he moves away)
                         Asshole.

                                     LOU (V.O.)
                         My God!  Lee Harvey Oswald.

                                     JIM (V.O.)
                         Bull's-eye.  How do we know he was 
                         here?  Cause this office address was 
                         stamped on the pro-Casto leaflets he 
                         was handing out in the summer of '63 
                         down on Canal street.  They were the 
                         same leaflets that were found in his 
                         garage in Dallas.

               FLASHBACK to Canal Street in New Orleans on a summer day in 
               1963.  Oswald, in a thin tie and white short-sleeved shirt, 
               and wearing a homemade placard reading "Hands Off Cuba"; 
               "Viva Fidel!", is hawking leaflets to pedestrians with two 
               young helpers.

               A large white-haired businessman in a white suit, very 
               distinguished, walks with a friend on Canal Street.  Oswald 
               glances at him and meets his eyes.  The businessman enters 
               an office building.  This man is Clay Bertrand, later known 
               as Clay Shaw.

               Some Cubans, led by Carols Bringuier, now appear.  One of 
               them, "the Bull", is heavy-set with dark glasses.  More of 
               him will also be seen.

                                     JIM
                         He was arrested that day for fighting 
                         with some anti-Castro Cubans... but 
                         actually he had contacted them a few 
                         days earlier as an ex-Marine trying 
                         to join the anti-Castro crusade.  
                         When they heard he was now pro-Castro, 
                         they paid him a visit.

                                     CARLOS
                              (haranguing passerby)
                         He's a traitor, this man!  Don't 
                         believe a word he tells you!
                              (to Oswald)
                         You sonofabitch, you liar, you're a 
                         Communist, go back to Moscow.

               Carlos throws Oswald's leaflets in the air and pulls off his 
               glasses, prepared to fight.  Oswald only smiles, and puts 
               his arms down in an X of passivity.

                                     OSWALD
                         Okay, Carlos, if you want to hit me, 
                         hit me.

               There is no real fight, but the police, as if pre-alerted, 
               arrive.

               Arrests are made.  We see Oswald in a room in the police 
               station, talking with FBI Agent John Quigley.  A calendar on 
               the wall shows that it's August, 1963.

                                     JIM (V.O.)
                         There was no real fight and the 
                         arresting Lieutenant later said he 
                         felt it was a staged incident.  In 
                         jail, Oswald asked to talk to Special 
                         Agent John Quigley of the FBI who 
                         showed up immediately.  They have a 
                         private session.  Oswald is released 
                         and Quigley destroys his notes from 
                         the interview.

               In a television studio in 1963, Oswald debates Carlos 
               Bringuier with two moderators.

                                     JIM
                         But the arrest gets him a lot of 
                         publicity and as a result Oswald 
                         appears on a local TV debate that 
                         established his credentials as a 
                         Communist.

                                     BRINGUIER
                         But you're a Communist, are you not, 
                         and you defected to Russia.

                                     OSWALD
                         No, I am not a Communist.  But I am 
                         a Marxist-Leninist.

                                     BRINGUIER
                         What did you do when you were in 
                         Russia?

                                     OSWALD
                              (defensive)
                         I worked while I was there.  I was 
                         always under the protection of... 
                         that is to say, I was not under the 
                         protection of the U.S. Government.

               Back in 1966, Jim walks with his two assistants.

                                     BILL
                         What the hell's a Communist like Lee 
                         Oswald doing working out of 
                         Banister's?

                                     JIM
                         Y'ever heard of a double agent, Bill?  
                         I'm beginning to doubt Oswald was 
                         ever a Communist... after the arrest, 
                         544 Camp Street never appeared on 
                         the pamphlets again.  Now here's 
                         another one for you:  What would you 
                         say if I told you Lee Oswald had 
                         been trained in the Russian language 
                         when he was a Marine?

                                     LOU
                         I'd say he was probably getting 
                         intelligence training.

                                     JIM
                         Lou, you were in the Marines.  Who 
                         would be running that training?

                                     LOU
                         The Office of Naval Intelligence.

                                     JIM
                         Take a look across the street.

               We see the Post Office building across the street.

                                     LOU
                         Post Office.

                                     JIM
                         Upstairs.  In 1963 that was the Office 
                         of Naval Intelligence - And just by 
                         coincidence, Banister, before he was 
                         FBI, was ONI.  What do they say?

                                     LOU
                         "Once ONI, always ONI"?

                                     BILL
                         Well, he likes to work near his old 
                         pals.

               Jim makes a gesture encompassing the whole Square.

                                     JIM
                         Bill, Lou, we're standing in the 
                         heart of the United States 
                         Government's intelligence community 
                         in New Orleans.  That's the FBI there, 
                         the CIA, Secret Service, ONI.  Doesn't 
                         this seem to you a rather strange 
                         place for a Communist to spend his 
                         spare time?

                                     LOU
                         What are you driving at, boss?

                                     JIM
                         We're going back into the case, Lou - 
                         the murder of the President.  I want 
                         you to take some money from the Fees 
                         and Fines Account and go to Dallas - 
                         talk to some people.  Bill, I want 
                         you to get Oser on the medical, the 
                         autopsy, Susan on Oswald and Ruby 
                         histories, tax records...

                                     BILL
                         Lord, wake me, please.  I must be 
                         dreaming.

                                     JIM
                         No, you're awake, Bill, and I'm dead 
                         serious.  And we're going to start 
                         by tracking down your anonymous source 
                         from three years ago.  How did you 
                         find out Dave Ferrie drove to Texas 
                         that day?

               RACETRACK - DAY(1966)

               A straggly group of people watch from the grandstands eating 
               hotdogs and talking in small clusters.  The horses are running 
               early morning laps.  Three men sit apart in the bleachers.  
               A scared Jack Martin, three years older than when last seen, 
               still wearing the Dick Tracy hat, sucks up coffee like a 
               worm does moisture.  He has the red puffy cheeks of an 
               alcoholic and deeply circled, worried eyes.  Bill and Jim 
               wait.

                                     JIM
                         You're not under cross-examination 
                         here, Jack.

               What I need is a little clarification about the night Guy 
               Banister beat you over the head with his Magnum.  You called 
               our office hopping mad from your hospital bed.  Don't tell 
               me you don't remember that?

               Jack looks away and doesn't respond.

                                     JIM
                         Here's my problem, Jack.  You told 
                         me you and Guy were good friends for 
                         a long time?

                                     MARTIN
                         More than ten years.

                                     JIM
                         And he never hit you before?

                                     MARTIN
                         Never touched me.

                                     JIM
                         Yet on November 22, 1963 - the day 
                         of the President's murder - our police 
                         report says he pistol-whipped you 
                         with a .357 Magnum.
                              (Martin's eyes are 
                              fixed on Jim)
                         But the police report says you had 
                         an argument over the phone bill.  
                         Here, take a look at it.
                              (Martin looks at the 
                              report)
                         Now, does a simple argument over 
                         phone bills sound like a believable 
                         explanation to you?

               SUDDEN FLASHBACK to the night of the pistol-whipping.  The 
               camera shows Banister laying Martin's head open / the beating 
               the humiliation.

                                     MARTIN
                              (shaking his head 
                              slowly, dreamily)
                         No, it involved more than that.

               Bill looks at Jim.

                                     JIM
                         How much more?

                                     MARTIN
                              (waits)
                         I don't know if I should talk about 
                         this.

                                     JIM
                         Well, I'd ask Guy - we were friendly, 
                         you know - heart attack, wasn't it?

                                     MARTIN
                         If you buy what you read in the paper.

                                     JIM
                         You have other information?

                                     MARTIN
                         I didn't say that.  All I know is he 
                         died suddenly just before the Warren 
                         Report came out.

                                     JIM
                         Why did Guy beat you, Jack?

                                     MARTIN
                         Well, I guess now that Guy's dead, 
                         it don't really matter... it was 
                         about the people hanging around the 
                         office that summer.  I wasn't really 
                         part of the operation, you know.  I 
                         was handling the private-eye work 
                         for Guy when that came in - not much 
                         did - but that's why I was there... 
                         it was a nuthouse.  There were all 
                         these Cubans coming and going.  They 
                         all looked alike to me.

               FLASHBACK to Banister's office in 1963.  There are Cubans in 
               battle fatigues and combat boots; duffle bags are lying 
               around.  David Ferrie, in fatigues, directs the Cubans as 
               they carry crates of ammunition and weapons into a back room.  
               Martin observes from another desk.

                                     MARTIN
                         Dave Ferrie - you know about him?

                                     JIM (V.O.)
                         Was he there often?

                                     MARTIN (V.O.)
                         Often?  He practically lived there.  
                         It was real cloak and dagger stuff.  
                         They called it Operation Mongoose.  
                         The idea was to train all these Cuban 
                         exiles for another invasion of Cuba.  
                         Banister's office was part of a supply 
                         line that ran from Dallas, through 
                         New Orleans to Miami, stockpiling 
                         arms and explosives.

               Still in 1963, we see the exterior of Banister's office.  A 
               dozen Cubans follow Ferrie downstairs into the street, and 
               pile into several cars, duffels thrown in with them.  Ferrie 
               drives the lead car.

                                     JIM (V.O.)
                         All this right under the noses of 
                         the intelligence community in 
                         Lafayette Square?

               We see the cars cross the long Lake Pontchartrain Bridge and 
               enter a remote guerrilla training camp.  Bayou and jungle 
               are all around.

                                     MARTIN (V.O.)
                         Sure.  Everybody knew everybody.  It 
                         was a network.  They were working 
                         for the CIA - pilots, black operations 
                         guys, civilians, military - everybody 
                         in those days was running guns 
                         somewhere... Fort Jefferson, Bayou 
                         Bluff, Morgan City... McAllen, Texas 
                         was a big gun-running operation.

               At the guerrilla training camp at Lake Pontchartrain in 1963, 
               we see scenes of basic training - shooting, obstacle courses, 
               callisthenics - led by Ferrie and other trainers.  Scattered 
               among the Cubans are several white American mercenaries.  We 
               catch a glimpse of Oswald and glimpses of several other men 
               we will see again, in sprinklings.

                                     JIM (V.O.)
                         Where is Banister in all this?

                                     MARTIN (V.O.)
                         Banister was running his camp north 
                         of Lake Pontchartrain.  Ferrie handled 
                         a lot of the training.  There was a 
                         shooting range and a lot of tropical 
                         terrain like in Cuba.  A few Americans 
                         got trained, too.  Nazi types.  
                         Mercenaries.  But Ferrie was the 
                         craziest.

               It's night at the training camp.  FBI agents race up in cars 
               in the middle of the night, swarming over the camp, rounding 
               up the trainees.

                                     MARTIN
                         Anyway, late summer the party ended.  
                         Kennedy didn't want another Bay of 
                         Pigs mess, so he ordered the FBI to 
                         shut down the camps and confiscate 
                         the napalm and the C-4.  There were 
                         a buncha Cubans and a couple Americans 
                         arrested, only you didn't read about 
                         it in the papers.  Just the weapons 
                         got mentioned... 'cause the first 
                         ones behind bars would've been 
                         Banister and Ferrie, but I think the 
                         G-men were just going through the 
                         motions for Washington.  Their hearts 
                         were with their old FBI buddy 
                         Banister.

               We see FBI agents loading dynamite, bomb casings, arms 155mm 
               artillery shells, etc.

               Back at the racetrack in 1966, Jim listens.

                                     MARTIN
                         Like I said, a fuckin' nuthouse.

                                     JIM
                         And Oswald?

               Martin hesitates.  We hear the rhythmic beating of the horse 
               hooves and Martin sucking on the steaming cup of coffee.

                                     MARTIN
                              (finally)
                         Yeah, he was there, too... sometimes 
                         he'd be meeting with Banister with 
                         the door shut.  Other times he'd be 
                         shooting the bull with Ferrie.  But 
                         he was there all right.

                                     JIM
                         Anything more specific, Jack?  It's 
                         important.

               FLASHBACK TO Banister's office in 1963.  Banister and Martin 
               shooting the breeze as the straight-laced middle-aged 
               secretary, Delphine Roberts, hurries in.

                                     MARTIN (V.O.)
                         Yeah, one time the secretary got 
                         upset, I remember...

                                     SECRETARY
                         I can't believe it, Mr. Banister.  
                         Lee Oswald is down on Canal Street 
                         giving out Communist leaflets 
                         supporting Castro!

               Banister just looks at her and laughs.

                                     BANISTER
                         It's okay, Delphine, he's with us.

               Back at the racetrack...

                                     JIM
                         Anyone else involved at Banister's 
                         level?

                                     MARTIN
                              (shrugs)
                         There was one guy, I don't know, big 
                         guy, business guy, white hair - I 
                         saw him come into the office once.  
                         He looked out of place, y'know - 
                         like a society guy.  Can't remember 
                         his name.
                              (thinking)
                         Oswald was with him. 

               FLASHBACK to Banisters office on a day in 1963.  Martin is 
               snooping in Banister's files.  Cut to Martin leaving the 
               office as a big businessman with white hair briefly talks to 
               Oswald and then goes into Banister's private office.

                                     MARTIN
                         He had something to do with money.  
                         I remember him cause Guy, who didn't 
                         kiss anybody's ass, sure kissed his.

               Banister lets the man into his private office.

                                     MARTIN
                         Clay something, that was his name - 
                         Clay.

                                     JIM
                         Bertrand.  Clay Bertrand?

                                     MARTIN
                         Yeah!  That's it.
                              (pause, paranoid)
                         I don't know.  Maybe it wasn't.  I 
                         gotta go.

                                     JIM
                              (to Bill)
                         Clay Bertrand.  He's in the Warren 
                         Report.  He tried to get Oswald a 
                         lawyer.
                              (to Martin)
                         Was Kennedy ever discussed, Jack?

                                     MARTIN
                         Sure.  'Course they hated the 
                         sonofabitch, but...

                                     JIM
                         The assassination, Jack?

                                     MARTIN
                              (tightens)
                         Never.  Not with me sir, never... 
                         Listen, I think I'd better go.  I 
                         said enough.  I said all I'm going 
                         to say.
                              (rises suddenly)

                                     JIM
                         Hold on, Jack.  What's the problem?

                                     MARTIN
                         What's the problem?  What's the 
                         problem?  Do I need to spell it out 
                         for you, Mr. Garrison?  I better go.

                                     JIM
                         Nobody knows what we're talking about, 
                         Jack.

                                     MARTIN
                         You're so naive, mister.

               Martin picks his way nervously down the bleacher benches.

               CAR - FRENCH QUARTER - DAY(1966)

               Jim drives, with Numa in the front and Bill in the back.

                                     BILL
                         Well, it's a terrific yard, Chief, 
                         but the man's an obvious alcoholic 
                         with a reputation lower than crocodile 
                         piss.

                                     JIM
                         Does that bother you, Bill?  I always 
                         wondered in court why it is because 
                         a woman is a prostitute, she has to 
                         have bad eyesight.

                                     BILL
                         He'll never sign a statement, boss, 
                         let alone get on a witness stand.

                                     JIM
                         When something's rotten in the land, 
                         Bill, it generally isn't just one 
                         fish, we'll get corroboration... 
                         find this Clay Bertrand.  If I were 
                         a betting man, I'd give you 10 to 1 
                         it's an alias.  Start checking around 
                         the Quarter.

                                     BILL
                         And the six of us, with almost no 
                         budget and in secret, are going to 
                         solve the case that the Warren 
                         Commission with dozens of support 
                         staff and millions of dollars couldn't 
                         solve.  We can't keep up with the 
                         crimes in the Parish as it is, Chief.

                                     JIM
                         The murder of a President, Bill, is 
                         a crime in Orleans Parish too.  I 
                         didn't pick you because of your legal 
                         skill, you know.

                                     BILL
                         Gee, thanks boss.

               Jim pulls the car over to park.

                                     JIM
                         But because you're a fighter.  I 
                         like a man who isn't scared of bad 
                         odds.

               FRENCH QUARTER SIDEWALK - DAY(1966)

               Jim and the others get out of the car and head towards 
               Antoine's Restaurant.  A black woman greets him.

                                     BLACK WOMAN
                         How ya doing, Mr. Garrison?  Remember 
                         me - from the piano bar at the Royal 
                         Orleans?

                                     JIM
                         I sure do.  We sang "You're the Cream 
                         in My Coffee."

               She laughs.  Others move in on him.

                                     JIM
                              (to Numa)
                         Make sure we come back here, now.

               ANTOINE'S RESTAURANT - DAY(1966)

               They enter a busy lunchtime crowd in an elegant eatery.  Lou 
               Ivon and Al Oser are waiting for them as they're shown to 
               their table by the Maitre d'.

                                     MAITRE D'
                         Mr. Garrison, we have not seen enough 
                         of you lately.

                                     JIM
                         Been too busy, Paul - an elected man 
                         can't have as much fun as he used 
                         to.
                              (seeing Lou and Al)
                         Welcome back, Lou.  Find out anything 
                         on those hobos?

               Lou's been waiting, excited.  He gives Jim blowups of the 
               five hobo photographs.

                                     LOU
                         They took 'em to the Sheriff's office, 
                         not the police station, and they let 
                         'em go.  No record of them ever being 
                         questioned.

                                     JIM
                         I can't say that comes as a surprise 
                         anymore.

                                     LOU
                         A photographer from The Dallas Times 
                         Herald got some great shots of them 
                         never published...

               The camera moves in on the photographs.

               FLASHBACK TO the "hoboes" being escorted to the Sheriff's 
               office - as per Sgt. Harkness' earlier description.

                                     LOU
                         ...take a good look, chief, do any 
                         of 'em look like the hoboes you 
                         remember?

                                     JIM
                         Hoboes I knew of old used to sleep 
                         in their clothes - these two look 
                         pretty young.

                                     LOU
                         ...not a single frayed collar or 
                         cuff, new haircuts, fresh shaves, 
                         clean hands - new shoe leather.  
                         Look at the ear of the cop... That's 
                         a wire.  What's a cop wearing a 
                         headset for?  I think they're actors, 
                         chief; they're not cops.

               Susie Cox arrives.

                                     JIM
                         Who the hell are they, then!  Hi, 
                         Susie, sit down.
                              (to Lou)
                         This could be it.  Let's start looking 
                         for 'em.

               How 'bout that railroad man, Lee Bowers?  Saw those men at 
               the picket fence?

                                     LOU
                         Graveyard dead.  August this year.
                              (Jim curses quietly)
                         A single car accident on an empty 
                         road in Midlothian, Texas.  The doctor 
                         said he was in some kind of strange 
                         shock when he died.
                              (pause)

                                     JIM
                              (shares the look)
                         We need to find more witnesses, Lou.

                                     LOU
                         There was Rose Cheramie.  A whore.  
                         Two Cubans threw her out of a car on 
                         the way to Dallas.

               She talked to a cop from a hospital bed two days before the 
               assassination, said Kennedy would be hit that Friday.  She 
               said she was a dope runner for Jack Ruby and that Ruby knew 
               Oswald for years...

                                     JIM
                         Can we find her?

                                     LOU
                         Graveyard dead near Big Sandy, Texas 
                         in '65.  Two in the morning on some 
                         highway.  A hit and run.

               FLASHBACK to Rose lying dead on an empty highway.

                                     BILL
                         Why not go right to the horse's mouth, 
                         chief?

               Jack Ruby's been rotting in a Dallas jail cell for three 
               years.  Maybe he's ready to crack?

                                     JIM
                         If we go to him our investigation'll 
                         hit the front pages by sunrise.  
                         Blow up right in our face.  Ruby was 
                         just given a new trial.  If he has 
                         something to say, it'll be there.  
                         Susie, what did you find out on 
                         Oswald?

                                     SUSIE
                         Negative on his tax records.  
                         Classified.  First time I know a 
                         D.A. can't get a tax record.  I put 
                         together a list of all the CIA files 
                         on Oswald that were part of the Warren 
                         Report and asked for them.  There 
                         are about 1200 documents...
                              (gives it to Jim who 
                              reads)
                         Oswald in the USSR, in Mexico City, 
                         Oswald and the U2, a CIA 201 personnel 
                         file, a memo from the Director on 
                         Oswald, travel and activities - can't 
                         get one of them.  All classified as 
                         secret on the grounds of national 
                         security.  It's real strange.

                                     BILL
                         Maybe there's more to this, Susie.  
                         The CIA's keeping something from our 
                         enemies.

                                     SUSIE
                         Yes, but we're talking about a dead 
                         warehouse employee of no political 
                         significance.  Three years later and 
                         he's still classified?  They gave us 
                         his grammar school records, a study 
                         of his pubic hairs... Put it in 
                         context, Bill, of what we know about 
                         Oswald.  Lonely kid, no father, 
                         unstable childhood, high school 
                         dropout - wants to grow up and be a 
                         spy, joins the Marines at 17.  He 
                         learns Russian, he acts overtly 
                         Marxist with two other marines, but 
                         he's stationed at a top secret base 
                         in Japan where U2 spy flights over 
                         Russia originate.  He's discharged 
                         from the Marines supposedly because 
                         his mother's sick.  He stays home 3 
                         days, then with a $1500 ticket from 
                         a $203 bank account, he goes to 
                         Moscow...

               FLASHBACK TO Moscow in 1959.  We see shots of the city - 
               strange and eerie black-and-white stills.  Inside the U.S. 
               Embassy Oswald slaps his passport on the table with a formal 
               letter.  Two consuls attend him.

                                     OSWALD
                              (voice stilted)
                         I want to renounce my citizenship 
                         and become a Soviet citizen.  I'm 
                         going to make known to them all 
                         information I have concerning the 
                         Marine Corps and my specialty therein, 
                         radar operation...

                                     SUSIE (V.O.)
                         One of the consuls, John McVickar, 
                         says Oswald's performance was not 
                         spontaneous - it seemed coached.  
                         Oswald gives an interview to a 
                         journalist.

               Continuing the Moscow flashback, we see Oswald talking with 
               a female journalist in his small room in the Hotel Metropole.  
               Again he sounds robotic.

                                     OSWALD
                         I will never return to the United 
                         States for any reason.  It is a 
                         capitalist country, an exploitive, 
                         racist country.  I am a Marxist since 
                         I was 15.  I've seen poor niggers 
                         and that was a real lesson.  People 
                         hate because they're told to hate, 
                         like school kids.  It's the fashion 
                         to hate people in the U.S.

                                     SUSIE (V.O.)
                         The Russians are skeptical - want to 
                         send him back.  Maybe they suspect 
                         he's a spy.  He supposedly slashes 
                         his wrists in a suicide attempt so 
                         that they're forced to keep him, and 
                         he disappears for six weeks, 
                         presumably with the KGB.

               We see photos of the city of Minks, in Russia, Oswald with 
               various friends and tourists, shots of Lee and Marina with a 
               new baby.

                                     SUSIE
                         Finally they shuttle him to a radio 
                         factory in Minks where he lives as 
                         high on the hog as he ever has - 
                         he's given 5,000 rubles, a roomy 
                         apartment with a balcony, has affairs 
                         with local girls.

                                     JIM
                         Makes sense - he's a spokesman.

                                     SUSIE
                         But he never writes, speaks, or does 
                         any propaganda for the Russians.  He 
                         meets Marina, whose uncle is a colonel 
                         in Soviet intelligence, at a trade 
                         union dance; she thinks he's Russian 
                         the way he speaks, six weeks later 
                         they marry, have a daughter.

                                     NUMA
                         Didn't someone say he didn't speak 
                         good Russian?

                                     JIM
                         It's a contradiction, Numa, get used 
                         to them.  The only explanation for 
                         the royal treatment is he did give 
                         them radar secrets.  Or fake secrets.

               We see documentary shots of the U2 on Russian soil... Francis 
               Gary Powers... The Summit Conference canceled... Eisenhower 
               and Khrushchev.

                                     SUSIE (V.O.)
                         I don't know if it's coincidence, 
                         but Oswald had a top security 
                         clearance and knew about the U2 
                         program from his days at Atsugi Air 
                         Base in Japan.  Six months after he 
                         arrives in Russia, Francis Gary 
                         Powers' U2 spy flight goes down in 
                         Russia.  That plane was untouchable.  
                         Powers hinted that Oswald could've 
                         given the Russians enough data to 
                         hit it.  As a direct result, the 
                         peace summit between Khrushchev and 
                         Eisenhower failed.  I can't help 
                         thinking of that book Seven Days In 
                         May, maybe someone in our military 
                         didn't want the Peace Conference to 
                         happen, maybe Oswald was part of 
                         that.  It gets weirder.

                                     BILL
                         Susie, you're an assistant D.A., 
                         remember.  Stick to what you can 
                         prove in court.

                                     SUSIE
                         You want facts, Bill?  Okay.  From 
                         1945 to '59 only two U.S. soldiers 
                         defect to Russia.  From '59 to '60, 
                         seven defect, six return, one of 
                         them another Marine a month before 
                         Oswald.  All of them young men made 
                         to seem poor, disenchanted.

                                     JIM
                         Don't get sidetracked!  How does he 
                         get back to the States?  That's the 
                         point.  Does he have any problems?

                                     SUSIE
                         None!  The State Department issues 
                         him a new passport in 48 hours and 
                         loans him the money to travel.  He's 
                         never investigated or charged by the 
                         Navy for revealing classified 
                         information or, as far as we know, 
                         debriefed by the CIA.

                                     JIM
                         This is a man whose secrets cause us 
                         to change our radar patterns in the 
                         Pacific!  He should've been prosecuted 
                         as a traitor!

                                     SUSIE
                         The FBI finally gets around to talking 
                         to him in Dallas and runs a file on 
                         him as a miscreant Communist type.

                                     JIM
                         But who meets him when he gets off 
                         the boat in New York in June '62?

               The screen shows photos of New York: Empty docks... a ship 
               coming in... Wall Street on a Sunday morning - Graphic Weegee-
               type black-and-white stills, then a photo of Spas T. Raikin.

                                     SUSIE (V.O.)
                         Spas T. Raikin, a leading member of 
                         an anti-Communist group.

                                     JIM (V.O.)
                         And Marina?  Does she have a problem 
                         getting out?

                                     SUSIE (V.O.)
                         None either.  It's bizarre.  It's 
                         next to impossible to get Russian 
                         sweethearts out.  Nor does Lee have 
                         any problem getting a new passport 
                         when he wants to go to Cuba and Russia 
                         in '63.  A man who has defected once 
                         already.  It's crazy.

                                     JIM
                         Dammit, it doesn't add up!  Ordinary 
                         people get blacklisted for leftist 
                         affiliations!  The State Department 
                         did everything short of dispatching 
                         a destroyer to Minks to insure 
                         Oswald's return.  Only intelligence 
                         people can come and go like that.

               FLASHBACK TO a Forth Worth map factory.  We see Oswald at 
               work on photo mattes with a Minox spy camera.  The camera 
               shows close-ups of maps and then flashes to a hand in the 
               photographic section.  We see a close-up of Oswald's head in 
               a photograph - the same headshot that will be superimposed 
               on the Oswald photo - and a razor blade cutting mattes.

                                     SUSIE (V.O.)
                         The next thing we know he's living 
                         in Dallas/Ft. Worth in October '62 
                         working 6 months at Jaggars-Chiles-
                         Stovall, a photographic firm that 
                         contracts to make maps for the U.S. 
                         Army... He starts work only days 
                         before the government reveals Russian 
                         missiles in Cuba and the crisis 
                         explodes.  Oswald may have had access 
                         to missile site footage obtained by 
                         the U2 planes and works alongside a 
                         young man who'd been in the Army 
                         Security Agency.

                                     JIM
                         Sort of like Benedict Arnold coming 
                         back to George Washington's cabinet.

                                     SUSIE
                         Equally incongruous is Oswald becoming 
                         chummy with the White Russian 
                         community of Dallas - all rabid anti-
                         Communists.

               FLASHBACK TO Fort Worth in 1963.  In Oswald's cheap apartment, 
               seven White Russians, including George de Mohrenschildt, a 
               distinguished grey-haired man in his late fifties, are 
               visiting Marina and Oswald, bringing old dresses, groceries, 
               and toys and milk for the crying baby, whose cradle is two 
               suitcases.

                                     SUSIE
                         His closest friend is an oilman named 
                         George de Mohrenschildt who's about 
                         35 years older than Oswald, who's 
                         only 23 and supposedly broke.  De 
                         Mohrenschildt is a member of the 
                         Dallas Petroleum Club, speaks five 
                         languages and was in French Vichy 
                         Intelligence during the War.  Also 
                         rumoured to have been a Nazi 
                         sympathizer and member of the 
                         "Solidarists", an international anti-
                         Communist organization with many 
                         Eastern Europeans and ex-Nazis, many 
                         of them brought here by the CIA after 
                         the war, many of them involved in 
                         oil and munitions interests in Dallas 
                         and the Southwest.  You figure it.

                                     AL
                         Where'd you get all this Nazi stuff?

                                     SUSIE
                              (hands him a file)
                         Read it.  They called it "Project 
                         Paperclip."

                                     JIM (V.O.)
                         This is the guy that keeps turning 
                         up in colonial countries and each 
                         time something strange happens.  
                         Coup d'etats, presidents overthrown.  
                         He shows up on a "walking tour" of 
                         Guatemala's Cuban invasion camps 
                         just before the Bay of Pigs invasion.  
                         If we don't know he's CIA, let's 
                         circle him very probable - Oswald's 
                         handler.

               We see Oswald and de Mohrenschildt talking with the others 
               and a magazine cover with J.F.K. the subject of discussion.

                                     OSWALD
                         I think he's made some mistakes on 
                         Cuba, but he's doing a pretty good 
                         job.  If he succeeds, in my opinion, 
                         he'll be a great President.  And a 
                         really attractive one too - open 
                         features, great head of hair...
                              (laughs)

                                     SUSIE (V.O.)
                         De Mohrenschildt draws a picture of 
                         Oswald as an intellectual, well read, 
                         speaks excellent Russian, a man who 
                         adored J.F.K.

                                     JIM
                         That's scenery.  Don't get 
                         sidetracked.  This is the man, bottom 
                         line, who nailed Oswald to the Warren 
                         Commission as a potentially violent 
                         man, and linked him to the rifle.

               TIME CUT TO Oswald's apartment on a different day in 1963.  
               George de Mohrenschildt points out a Mannlicher-Carcano rifle 
               in the closet, turns to Lee.

                                     GEORGE
                         So, Lee, what are you taking a potshot 
                         at this week - rabbits or fascists?

               Lee's look is sickly.  He freezes up.

               RESUME scene of White Russian gathering in Oswald's apartment.

                                     SUSIE
                         The only Russian that suspects Oswald 
                         of still being a Communist is Anna 
                         Meller.  But her Russian friend tells 
                         her "he's checked" with the local 
                         FBI and was told Oswald is all right.

               Anna Meller, one of the guests, glances at a copy of Das 
               Kapital in a pile of books, and talks to another Russian man 
               about it... Talking now to Lee and Marina are Janet and Bill 
               Williams, a mid-American couple in their late twenties, 
               freshly minted.

                                     SUSIE
                         The Oswalds are introduced by George 
                         de Mohrenschildt to Janet and Bill 
                         Williams.  It's through Janet Williams 
                         in October '63 that Lee gets the 
                         warehouse job, right smack on Elm 
                         Street at the Book Depository, which 
                         is owned by another oilman with ties 
                         to defense and military intelligence.

                                     JIM (V.O.)
                         Presumably so he can now exercise 
                         his intellect stacking school texts 
                         at $1.25 an hour.

               We see Oswald and another man in the Texas School Book 
               Depository in 1963.  They are hauling and stacking school 
               textbooks - an obviously lower-level job for Oswald after 
               the map factory.  We cut ahead to empty graphics of the sealed 
               off area, the window site, the cafeteria.

                                     SUSIE (V.O.)
                         All I can find out about the Williams' 
                         is their tax returns are classified 
                         and that Bill Williams, a descendant 
                         of the Cabots of Massachusetts, has 
                         links through his family and United 
                         Fruit to the CIA and does classified 
                         work for Bell Helicopter which 
                         requires a security clearance - so 
                         what is Oswald, a defector, doing 
                         visiting his wife in his house?  
                         Williams has a relationship at Bell 
                         with General Walter Dornberger, 
                         another one of the Nazis we brought 
                         in after the War for our missile 
                         program.  He used slave labor to 
                         build the V-2 Rockets for Hitler 
                         before Bell needed him.

                                     JIM
                         I wonder about the Williams'.  Just 
                         where did the first description of 
                         Oswald come from at 12:44?  No one 
                         knows.  They claimed it was Brennan's, 
                         but his description came after 1 
                         P.M.  Who called?  Somehow the FBI's 
                         been tapping the Williams' and picks 
                         up a call between Bell Helicopter 
                         and Janet's phone, an unidentified 
                         voice saying "We both know who's 
                         responsible."  Who called?  Why's 
                         the Bureau been tapping them?

               We see the interior of the Williams' home in Irving on a day 
               in 1963.

                                     SUSIE (V.O.)
                         His wife, Janet Williams, studied 
                         Russian in college and her father 
                         worked for the Agency for 
                         International Development, which 
                         works hand in hand with the CIA.  
                         She suddenly becomes Marina's best 
                         friend.  Marina fights often with 
                         Lee about many things - his secrecy, 
                         the lack of money.  She says Lee is 
                         not sexually adequate.  Lee hits her 
                         on several occasions.  Bill Williams' 
                         convenient separation from Janet 
                         allows Janet to invite Marina to 
                         move into her house in Irving.  There 
                         Marina and Lee have a second daughter - 
                         while Lee, now 24, stores his 
                         belongings in Janet's garage and 
                         rents a small room in Dallas under 
                         an alias of "O.H. Lee".

               We see Marina and Oswald in bed at night in the Williams' 
               house, in a tender scene.  Oswald says goodbye to his child.

               TIME CUT TO Oswald living in a boarding house.  It is at 
               night, and he sits in his room alone.  The housekeeper, 
               Earlene Roberts, heavyset, white, in her 60's, comes in and 
               asks him if he wants to watch some TV with her.  He declines.

                                     SUSIE
                         When he's arrested, Marina buries 
                         him with the public.  Her description 
                         of him is that of a psychotic and 
                         violent man.

               FLASHBACK TO Marina on TV, a different person from before.

                                     MARINA
                         I do not want to believe, but I have 
                         too much facts.. tell me that Lee 
                         shot Kennedy.

                                     JIM (V.O.)
                         Yeah, after, they take her to Six 
                         Flags Inn in Arlington, prepare her 
                         for the interviews, teach her how 
                         she should answer - and after two 
                         months and 46 interviews, she has a 
                         nervous breakdown.
                              (flashback)
                         Oswald was no angel, that's clear, 
                         but who was he?

               BACK TO Antoine's Restaurant.

                                     BILL
                         I'm lost, boss.  What are we saying 
                         here?

                                     JIM
                         We're saying that when Oswald went 
                         to Russia, he was not a real defector, 
                         that he was an intelligence agent on 
                         some kind of mission for our 
                         government and he remained one till 
                         the day he died, that's what we're 
                         saying.

                                     BILL
                         And therefore because Oswald pulled 
                         the trigger, the intelligence 
                         community murdered their own commander 
                         in chief.  That's what you're saying!

                                     JIM
                         I'll go you one better!  Maybe Oswald 
                         didn't even pull the trigger, Bill.  
                         The nitrate test indicates he didn't 
                         even fire a rifle on November 22nd.  
                         And on top of that, they didn't even 
                         bother to check if the rifle had 
                         been fired that day.

                                     BILL
                         He had his palm print on the weapon.

                                     JIM
                         It went to the goddamn FBI and they 
                         didn't find a goddamn thing.  It 
                         comes back a week later and one guy 
                         in the Dallas police department 
                         suddenly finds a palm print which 
                         for all I know he could've taken off 
                         Oswald at the morgue.  There's no 
                         chain of evidence, Bill.  And what 
                         about the tow guns actually seen in 
                         the Depository?  One an Enfield 
                         photographed by a newsman and the 
                         other a Mauser, described by Deputy 
                         Weitzman... Maybe, just maybe, Lee 
                         Oswald was exactly what he said he 
                         was Bill - "a patsy".  Take it at 
                         face value.  Lou, Susie, I'm going 
                         with my gut here.  He's got an alias 
                         of Hidell to buy the rifle, "O.H. 
                         Lee" to rent the room, right?  What's 
                         in a name, right?  In intelligence, 
                         they're assumed to be fake.  A name 
                         is sort of like a postbox number, a 
                         code - several different people can 
                         use the same name, right?  Then why 
                         can't somebody be using Oswald's 
                         name?

               We see blank faces around the table.

                                     BILL
                         But why?

                                     JIM
                         To frame him, obviously.  You got to 
                         get in your minds how the hell spooks 
                         think, Bill!  They're not ordinary 
                         crooks.

                                     LOU
                         I never could figure out why this 
                         guy orders a traceable weapon to 
                         that post office box when you can go 
                         into any store in Texas, give a phony 
                         name and walk out with a cheap rifle 
                         which can never be traced.

                                     JIM
                         Unless he or someone else wants him 
                         to get caught.  Maybe he never ordered 
                         the weapon, Lou.  Somebody else did.  
                         It was picked up at the post office 
                         early morning when Oswald's time 
                         sheet shows him clocked in at his 
                         job.  Lou, come alive.  These things 
                         are not adding up.

                                     BILL
                         I still have to question what the 
                         legal basis is that supports this, 
                         boss.  Susie's stuff is colorful, 
                         but...

                                     JIM
                         Let's start making some assumptions 
                         about the man.  Why would he leave a 
                         path as big as Lee Harvey Oswald's?  
                         This is not a thin trail, gentlemen, 
                         it is a very wide one.  Who found 
                         the evidence?  Who set him up?  Lou, 
                         Bill, Susie, I want you to go back 
                         and check all the sightings of Oswald 
                         in Dallas, New Orleans and Mexico in 
                         the summer and fall of '63 - see if 
                         it's the same guy.

                                     AL
                         Boss, Oswald impersonators?  Sounds 
                         like James Bond now.

                                     JIM
                         Al, you can't tell a mink from a 
                         coonskin unless you see the fur up 
                         close.  Goddamn, Sam!  If we don't 
                         start reading between the lines here!  
                         Y'all gotta start thinking on a 
                         different level - like the CIA does.  
                         We're through the looking glass.  
                         Here white is black and black is 
                         white.

                                     BILL
                         What do you think, Lou?

                                     LOU
                         I'm just an investigator, Bill.  I 
                         leave the theories to you lawyers.

                                     BILL
                         You, Numa?

                                     NUMA
                         A week ago I would've said this is 
                         nuts, but now ...
                              (shakes his head)
                         There's a lot of smoke there, but 
                         there's some fire.

                                     BILL
                         Now you guys, come on.  You're talking 
                         about the United States Government 
                         here!

                                     JIM
                         We're talking about a crime, Bill.  
                         No one is above the law.  Reduce it.  
                         A crime was committed.  Let's get to 
                         work.

               MEDICAL UNIT - JAIL - DAY(1966)

               Jack Ruby, thick fudge of an angry face, flu-ridden, confronts 
               a doctor and two guards in his cell.

                                     RUBY
                         Christ, what the hell kinda needle 
                         is that?  I just got a cold for 
                         Chrissake.  I don't want any shot!

                                     DOCTOR
                         Please relax, Mr. Ruby.  This'll 
                         calm you down and clear this up.

                                     RUBY
                         Doc, I'm telling you, I don't need 
                         any shots.

                                     DOCTOR
                         Mr. Ruby, I don't want to involve 
                         the guards.  It'll just take a few 
                         seconds.

               Ruby looks over at the two guards, who eye him.  The Doctor 
               gives him the injection.

               FLASHBACK TO Ruby's jail cell in 1964.  Ruby talks to men 
               with their backs to us.  Lawyers and police clutter the cell, 
               making Ruby hyper-nervous.  The chief official's white hair 
               and avuncular voice are all we see and hear of him; his back 
               is to us.

                                     RUBY
                         Then do you understand that I cannot 
                         tell the truth here?  In Dallas.  
                         That there are people here who do 
                         not want me to tell the truth...  
                         who do not want me to have a retrial?

                                     OFFICIAL
                         Mr. Ruby, I really can't see why you 
                         can't tell us now.

               Ruby catches the stern face of Sheriff Bill Decker from the 
               corner of his eye, the Assistant D.A. next to him.

                                     RUBY
                         When are you going back to Washington, 
                         sir?

                                     OFFICIAL
                              (looks at watch)
                         I am going back very shortly after 
                         we finish this hearing - I am going 
                         to have some lunch.

                                     RUBY
                         Can I make a statement?  If you 
                         request me to go back to Washington 
                         with you right now, that is if you 
                         want to hear further testimony from 
                         me, can you do that?  Can you take 
                         me with you?

                                     OFFICIAL
                         No, that could not be done, Mr. Ruby.  
                         There are a good many things involved 
                         in that.

                                     RUBY
                         What are they?

                                     OFFICIAL
                         Well, the public attention it would 
                         attract.  And we have no place for 
                         you there to be safe, we're not law 
                         enforcement officials, and many things 
                         are at stake in this affair, Mr. 
                         Ruby.

                                     RUBY
                         But if I am eliminated there won't 
                         be any way of knowing.  Consequently 
                         a whole new form of government is 
                         going to take over this country, and 
                         I know I won't live to see you another 
                         time.  My life is in danger here.  
                         Do I sound screwy?

                                     OFFICIAL
                         Well I don't know what can be done, 
                         Mr. Ruby, because I don't know what 
                         you anticipate we will encounter.

                                     RUBY
                         Then you don't stand a chance, Mr. 
                         Chief Justice, you have a lost cause.  
                         All I want is a lie detector test, 
                         and you refuse to give it to me.  
                         Because as it stands now - and the 
                         truth serum - how do you pronounce 
                         it - Pentothal - whatever it is.  
                         They will not give it to me, because 
                         I want to tell the truth... And then 
                         I want to leave this world.

               The camera pauses on Ruby's face.  The men rise and leave in 
               the shadows.

               PARKLAND MEMORIAL HOSPITAL - (1967)

               Jack Ruby is escorted out of the infirmary, dead of cancer.

               BROUSSARD'S RESTAURANT - NEW ORLEANS - (1967)

               The puffy, smiling face of Dean Andrews, framed by huge black 
               glasses, talks in a Louisiana hippie argot of the 50's.  The 
               restaurant has a fancy French decor, mirrored walls, marble - 
               it serves the cream of Louisiana society.

                                     ANDREWS
                         Why you keep dancing on my head for, 
                         my man?  We been thicker'n molasses 
                         pie since law school.

                                     JIM
                         Because you keep conning me, Dean.  
                         I read your testimony to the Warren 
                         Commission and...

                                     ANDREWS
                         There you go.  Grain of salt.  Two 
                         sides to every coin.

                                     JIM
                         You tell them the day after the 
                         assassination you were called on the 
                         phone by this "Clay Bertrand" and 
                         asked to fly to Dallas and be Lee 
                         Oswald's layer.

                                     ANDREWS
                         Right.

                                     JIM
                         Now that's pretty important, Dean.  
                         You also told the FBI when you met 
                         him, he was six foot two.  Then you 
                         tell the Commission he was five foot 
                         eight.  How the hell did the man 
                         shrink like that, Dean?

                                     ANDREWS
                         They put the heat on, my man, just 
                         like you're doing.  I gave'em anything 
                         that popped into my cabeza.  Truth 
                         is, I never met the dude.

               Sudden FLASHBACK to Andrews' office on a day in 1963.  Clay 
               Bertrand sits, back to us, talking to Andrews.  He has close-
               cropped white hair.  He is the same patrician man we've seen 
               earlier with Oswald on Canal Street and in Banister's office.  
               Andrews is evidently lying.

                                     ANDREWS
                         I don't know what the cat looks like 
                         and furthermore I don't know where 
                         he's at.  All I know is sometimes he 
                         sends me cases.  So one day he's on 
                         the phone talkin' to me about going 
                         to Dallas and repping Oswald...
                              (notices a woman, in 
                              present)
                         Hey, pipe the bimbo in red.  What 
                         ever happened to that little gal you 
                         was dating in the Quarter - from 
                         Opelousas, y'know, elevator didn't 
                         go to the top floor but tits could 
                         smother gumbo with.

               Jim, in present, looking briefly - a pretty girl walking in.

                                     JIM
                              (remembering)
                         Yeah, she was pretty, all right, but 
                         not half as cute as you, Deano.  You 
                         shoulda tried a legitimate line of 
                         business.

                                     ANDREWS
                              (chuckles)
                         You can't ever say crime don't pay 
                         in Louisiana, Jim - only not as good 
                         as it used to.  Good chowder, ain't 
                         it?

                                     JIM
                         When did you first do business with 
                         this Bertrand?

                                     ANDREWS
                              (bored)
                         Oh, I first heard these street cats 
                         jiving about him back in '56, '57 
                         when I lived down in the Quarter.

                                     JIM
                         Street cats?

                                     ANDREWS
                         Swishes.  They swish, y'know.  Young 
                         fags, you know.  They'd come into my 
                         bureau needing help, no bread, and 
                         I'd say, hey man, I ain't Rockefeller, 
                         who gonna back you up?  These 
                         cornmuffins go to the phone and 
                         dial...

               FLASHBACK TO Andrews' office on another day in 1963.  We 
               catch a glimpse of a young swish sitting in Andrew's office 
               talking on the phone.  Andrews is also on the phone to 
               Bertrand, unseen, on the other end.

                                     ANDREWS
                         The dude on the other end says...

                                     CLAY BERTRAND
                         I'm Clay Bertrand.  Whatever they 
                         owe, I guarantee.

                                     ANDREWS
                         Hey, suits me fine, Daddy Warbucks - 
                         how do I get in touch with you?

                                     CLAY BERTRAND
                         I'm around.

                                     ANDREWS (V.O.)
                         And that's how I first heard of Clay 
                         Bertrand.

                                     JIM (V.O.)
                         What was his voice like?

                                     ANDREWS
                         You knew you weren't talking to some 
                         low life fag, you know.  He had 
                         command of the king's English.

                                     JIM
                         Did he pay?

                                     ANDREWS
                         Always - like tits on a pig.  I wish 
                         I had a million of those bimbettes.

                                     JIM
                         And Oswald?

                                     ANDREWS
                              (just a slight 
                              hesitation)
                         Like I told to the Washington boys, 
                         Bertrand called that summer and asked 
                         me to help the kid upgrade his Marine 
                         discharge...

                                     JIM
                         So you saw Oswald how many times?

                                     ANDREWS
                         Three, four.  He came in with a few 
                         Cubano swishes one time I remember...

               FLASHBACK TO a third day at Andrew's office in 1963.  Oswald 
               is in the office with two young boys.

                                     JIM (V.O.)
                         Recall any names?

                                     ANDREWS
                              (in present)
                         Mario, Jose - they wear names like 
                         you and I wear clothes.  Today the 
                         name is Candy, tomorrow it's Butsie.  
                         I wish I could help you, Jim.

                                     JIM
                         Did you speak to Oswald in Dallas?

                                     ANDREWS
                              (knee-jerk reaction)
                         Hell, no!  I told this Bertrand cat 
                         right off, this isn't my scene, man.  
                         I deal with muni court, I'm a hack 
                         in nigger town, that kid needs a hot 
                         dog.

                                     JIM
                         Then how the hell did you get in the 
                         Warren Commission, Dean?  Except 
                         through the phone records in the 
                         Dallas jail?

                                     ANDREWS
                              (nervous moment)
                         There were no phone records.

                                     JIM
                         Of course there weren't. 'Cause they 
                         disappeared.  And yet the Commission 
                         found you, Dean.

                                     ANDREWS
                         I don't know how they got to me.  
                         Maybe cause I repped him here.  The 
                         Feebees run background checks.  On 
                         my mama's breasts, man, that's all I 
                         got.
                              (pauses, adjusts)
                         There wasn't no conspiracy, Jim.  If 
                         there were, why the hell didn't Bobby 
                         Kennedy prosecute it as Attorney 
                         General, he was his brother for 
                         Chrissake.  How the fuck three people 
                         could keep a secret like that, I 
                         don't know.  It was Oswald.  He was 
                         a nut job.  Faggot, y'know, hated 
                         this country.

               As Andrews resumes eating his crabmeat Louie with gusto, Jim 
               reaches over and grabs the fork in mid-air.

                                     JIM
                         Dean, I think we're having a 
                         communication problem.  I know you 
                         know who Clay Bertrand is.  Now stop 
                         eating that damn crabmeat for a minute 
                         and listen.
                              (gets Dean's attention)
                         I'm aware of our long friendship, 
                         but I want you to know I'm going to 
                         call you in front of a grand jury.  
                         I took nine judges on, Deano, right 
                         here in New Orleans, and I beat 'em 
                         all.  If you lie to the grand jury 
                         as you've been lying to me, I'm going 
                         to charge you with perjury.  Now, am 
                         I communicating with you?

               Andrews puts down the fork, shaken, silent for a moment.

                                     ANDREWS
                         Is this off the record, Daddy-o?
                              (Jim nods)
                         In that case, let me sum it up for 
                         you real quick.  If I answer that 
                         question you keep asking me, if I 
                         give you the name of the "Big 
                         Enchilada", y'know, then it's bon 
                         voyage, Deano - I mean like permanent.  
                         I mean like a bullet in my head.  
                         You dig?  Does that help you see my 
                         problem a little better?  You're a 
                         mouse fighting a gorilla.  Kennedy's 
                         dead as that crab meat.  The 
                         government's still breathing.  You 
                         want to line up with a dead man?

               At a nearby table, a waiter has just poured brandy on Crepe 
               Suzettes.  A blue flame hovers in the air as Jim leans forward 
               across the table, speaking deliberately.

                                     JIM
                         Read my lips, Deano.  Either you 
                         dance into the Grand Jury with the 
                         real identity of Clay Bertrand or 
                         your fat behind is going to the 
                         slammer.  Do you dig me?

               Andrews stands suddenly.

                                     ANDREWS
                         You're just as crazy as your mama.  
                         Goes to show it's in the genes!  Do 
                         you have any idea what you're getting 
                         into, my man?  You think Jack Ruby 
                         just up and died of cancer in four 
                         weeks after he gets a retrial?  That's 
                         some kinda new cancer - I'd say that's 
                         a "going out of business cancer".  
                         You got the right ta-ta, but the 
                         wrong ho-ho.  The government's gonna 
                         jump all over your head, Jimbo, and 
                         go "cock-a-doodledoo!"

               Andrews drops his pink napkin in the crabmeat and waddles 
               out.  Jim now feels closer to the truth than ever.

               ANGOLA PRISON - LOUISIANA COUNTRYSIDE - (1967)

               From the point of view of an approaching car, the prison 
               looms over the swamp, dogs patrolling the wire.

                                     VOICE (V.O.)
                         District Attorney Garrison to see 
                         Prisoner 5388, Ward Block 237B.

                                     GUARD'S VOICE (V.O.)
                         Send him on in.

               PRISON DORMITORY - (1967)

               A chief guard walks Jim and Bill into a circus-like 
               atmosphere.  In Louisiana the prisoners can wear any outfit 
               they choose, which makes this prison look like Mardi Gras.  
               There are many transvestites.

                                     GUARD
                              (with evident pride)
                         ...we don't need no gates out there, 
                         sir, we got the "swamp".  Many of 
                         'em gone in there but none come out... 
                         Hey, Willie!

               Willie O'Keefe, a handsome, muscled, young chickenhawk with 
               an earring, bandana, colorful clothes, an aura of burned 
               truth in his intense, staring brown eyes and thick country 
               accent, sashays over.

                                     GUARD
                         You got some company, wants to talk 
                         wid you.  You behave now, boy, y'hear.

               TIMECUT TO the prison work area, where Willie talks, leaning 
               against a tree looking out on a mangrove swamp.  It's lunch 
               break and other prisoners move in the background, eating, 
               socializing.

                                     JIM
                         I want to thank you, Mr. O'Keefe, 
                         for this time.

                                     O'KEEFE
                         Call me Willie.  I ain't got nuthin' 
                         but time, Mr. Garrison.  Minutes, 
                         hours, days, years of'em.  Time just 
                         stands still here like a snake sunnin' 
                         itself in the road...

                                     BILL
                         Clay Bertrand, Willie?

                                     O'KEEFE
                         Yeah.  Clay.  I met him sometime in 
                         June of '62 at the Masquerade Bar.  
                         Dave Ferrie took me there, for the 
                         express reason to meet him.

                                     JIM
                         For sexual purposes?

                                     O'KEEFE
                         Well... yeah.

               FLASHBACK TO the Masquerade Bar in the French Quarter.  It's 
               nighttime and Ferrie, Bertrand and O'Keefe sit at a back 
               booth.  Bertrand, as seen earlier, is an imposing, white-
               haired patrician man, over six feet tall, heavily defined 
               bones and eyelids, in his late 40's or early 50's.

                                     BILL (V.O.)
                         Did he pay you for this?

                                     O'KEEFE (V.O.)
                         Twenty dollars each time.  Hell, 
                         it's no secret.  That's what I'm 
                         here for.

               They rise to leave.  Bertrand with a slight limp.

                                     JIM (V.O.)
                         Anything else unusual about him you'd 
                         be able to describe in a court of 
                         law, Willie?

                                     O'KEEFE (V.O.)
                         I remember he had some kinda thing 
                         wrong with his left leg.  He limped.  
                         Don't get me wrong, he's not one of 
                         those, you know, limp wrists.  He's 
                         a butch John.  You'd meet him on the 
                         street, you'd never snap.  You could 
                         go fishing with him, play poker with 
                         him, you'd never snap in a million 
                         years.  So one night we were over at 
                         Ferrie's place.  Having a party.  
                         Sometime in the late summer of '63.

               FLASHBACK TO Dave Ferrie's apartment on a night in 1963.  
               The place is filled messy bricabrac, including two dozen 
               mouse cages for Ferrie's cancer experiments.  Ferrie, 
               Bertrand, O'Keefe, and four Cubans in battle fatigues are 
               laughing and fooling around.  Oswald is in a corner cleaning 
               a .22 rifle with a scope on it.  He looks different, unkempt, 
               unshaven.  A record player grinds out a speech in Spanish by 
               Castro.  Some other people are there as well - it's a beatnik 
               scene: sandals, hanging out, only one woman.  Ferrie is taking 
               pictures throughout of the group horsing around, photographing 
               Oswald.

                                     O'KEEFE
                         ...there were about nine or ten 
                         people, Cubans, friends of Dave doing 
                         some stuff in the bush with him.  
                         Place was a mess.  Dave's mind was a 
                         mess,
                              (laughs)
                         Y'know he had all those mice cages 
                         around cause he's working on this 
                         cure for cancer... Dave's smart -
                         real smart - speaks five languages, 
                         knows philosophy, medicine, military 
                         history, politics.  He wanted to be 
                         a priest but they defrocked him 'cause 
                         he was queer...

                                     BILL (V.O.)
                         And that's where you met Oswald for 
                         the first time?

                                     O'KEEFE (V.O.)
                         Yeah, strange guy.  Dave introduced 
                         him as...

                                     FERRIE
                         Willie, say hello to Leon Oswald.

                                     O'KEEFE
                              (over the racket)
                         How ya doing?

                                     OSWALD
                              (sullen, to Ferrie)
                         What the fuck's he doing here?

                                     O'KEEFE
                         Fuck you, man.

               Ferrie separates them.  Oswald seems to resent an outsider 
               being there.

                                     FERRIE
                              (to O'Keefe)
                         Leon's in a bad mood, don't get 
                         excited, he's all right.

                                     JIM (V.O.)
                         Would you say this "Leon" was actually 
                         Lee Harvey Oswald?

                                     O'KEEFE
                              (in present)
                         Fuck, yes.  Hell, I'm already in 
                         jail.  I got no reason to lie to 
                         you.  I ain't no nigger.

                                     BILL
                         Go on, Willie.

                                     O'KEEFE
                              (present merging to 
                              past)
                         ...well the party got crazier and 
                         crazier, one of those, y'know 
                         "beatnik" type things.

                                     FERRIE
                              (to O'Keefe)
                         We're having a little meeting here.
                              (indicates the second 
                              player)
                         That's Castro.  Sounds like Hitler 
                         doesn't he?  Sonofabitch is going to 
                         go.  Real soon.

                                     CUBANS
                         Muerte a Fidel!  Muerte!

                                     BERTRAND
                              (irritated at the 
                              noise)
                         Oh, stop it already!  What are all 
                         these people doing here anyway?  I 
                         can't bear all this infernal noise.

                                     FERRIE
                         Clara, don't be so sensitive.

                                     BERTRAND
                         I didn't come here for a pep rally.  
                         Get all this riffraff out of here.

                                     FERRIE
                         Okay, okay.

               TIMECUT TO later that night, when only O'Keefe, Ferrie, 
               Bertrand, Oswald and three Cubans are left.

                                     O'KEEFE (V.O.)
                         ...finally they got out of there and 
                         I found myself alone with Dave and 
                         this Leon, two of the Cubans, and 
                         this guy Bertrand.  Dave pulled out 
                         his clippings which he was always 
                         carrying around.  He'd been obsessed 
                         with Castro and Kennedy for months 
                         and he started in again...

                                     FERRIE
                              (waving a clipping, 
                              drunk)
                         Kennedy fucked us in '61, '62, and 
                         he's fuckin' us now!  And that fuckin' 
                         zealot Bobby Kennedy is the fuckee!  
                         The nerve of that little asswipe 
                         closing the camps.  Took all our C-
                         4!  Took ten thousand rounds, 3,000 
                         pounds of gunpowder, all our weapons.  
                         Next we'll be living in a world where 
                         only the cocksucking Reds will have 
                         all the weapons and we'll be 
                         surrounded.  If we want a free Cuba, 
                         we gotta whack out the fucking beard.

                                     CUBAN
                         That faggot Kennedy won't let us.  
                         Our hands are empty - how can we 
                         kill him?

                                     BERTRAND
                              (moving with a drink, 
                              walks with a slight 
                              limp)
                         It's a real problem getting at him.  
                         Castro's got informers on every block.

                                     FERRIE
                              (pointing to a map of 
                              Cuba on the wall)
                         Bullshit!  There's all kinds of new 
                         stuff.  I heard about rockets in an 
                         umbrella - they're tested at Fort 
                         Detrick?  I can show you a dozen 
                         poisons.  Stick it in his food, he'll 
                         die in three days, no trace.  We can 
                         put something in his beard, make it 
                         fall out, he'll look fuckin' 
                         ridiculous without his beard.

                                     CUBAN
                              (drunk)
                         Why don't we just take care of the 
                         main problem?  Which is that piece 
                         of shit Kennedy.  He's doing all 
                         kinds of deals!  Kissing Khrushchev's 
                         ass.  I wouldn't even call him 
                         President Kennedy.

                                     O'KEEFE (V.O.)
                         ...then the Cubans left and the 
                         bullshitting was going on, Dave was 
                         drunk, really drunk and he starts in 
                         with Kennedy again.

                                     FERRIE
                         See, what Kennedy done, with him you 
                         should take a knife and stab and 
                         kill the fucker where he is now.  I 
                         mean it.  This is true.  But I tell 
                         you something.  I hope I get a week's 
                         notice.  I'll kill.  Right in the 
                         fuckin' White House.  Somebody's got 
                         to get rid of this fucker.

               Oswald looks up, listens quietly.

                                     O'KEEFE
                         Oh, c'mon, Dave, you're never gonna 
                         get that sonofabitch.

                                     FERRIE
                         No?  It won't be long, mark my words.  
                         That fucker'll get what's coming to 
                         him.  And it can be blamed on Castro.  
                         Then the whole country'll want to 
                         invade Cuba.  All we got to do is 
                         get Kennedy in the open.

               Bertrand with his arms around O'Keefe, laughs, tries to change 
               the subject.

                                     BERTRAND
                         David, David, always some harebrained 
                         scheme or another... Oh?  What do I 
                         see here?  Oooooh, let's have some 
                         more champagne, shall we!

                                     O'KEEFE
                              (interested in Ferrie's 
                              proposal)
                         What about the Secret Service, the 
                         cops?

                                     FERRIE
                              (pacing, hyper)
                         No problem if it's planned right.  
                         Look how close they got with de 
                         Gaulle.  Eisenhower was always riding 
                         around in an open top.  I know 
                         somebody who actually went up and 
                         touched Eisenhower once.  We need to 
                         have three mechanics at three 
                         different locations.  An office 
                         building with a high-powered rifle.  
                         Triangulation of crossfire is the 
                         key.  You get the diversionary shot 
                         gets the Secret Service looking one 
                         way - Boom!  You get the kill shot.  
                         The crucial thing is one man has to 
                         be sacrificed, then in the commotion 
                         of the crowd the job gets done and 
                         the others fly out of the country to 
                         someplace with no extradition.  I 
                         could do that myself.  I could fly 
                         to Mexico, and then Brazil.

               Oswald listens, playing with his rifle.  Bertrand suddenly 
               turns cold, flashing a look at Ferrie.

                                     BERTRAND
                         Why don't we drop this subject... 
                         it's one thing to engage in badinage 
                         with these youngsters, but this sort 
                         of thing could be so easily 
                         misunderstood.
                              (he squeezes Ferrie)

                                     FERRIE
                         Ouch!

                                     O'KEEFE (V.O.)
                         I didn't think much about it at the 
                         time.  Just bullshit, y'know, 
                         everybody likes to make themselves 
                         out to be something more than they 
                         are.  Specially in the homosexual 
                         underworld.  But then when they got 
                         him
                              (merging to the present)
                         I got real scared, y'know.  Real 
                         scared.  And that's when I got popped.

               BACK TO the prison work area.  Jim and O'Keefe continue 
               talking.

                                     JIM
                         Willie, are you willing to repeat 
                         your statements under sodium 
                         pentothal?  Under the supervision of 
                         a doctor?

                                     O'KEEFE
                         Fuck, yeah!  I told you so.  And you 
                         can tell'em all I told you so.

                                     JIM
                         You realize the things you're saying, 
                         Willie, are going to be attacked by 
                         a lot of different people.

                                     O'KEEFE
                         Bring on all the motherfuckers!  
                         Bring their college degrees in here!  
                         I got nuthin' to hide.  They can't 
                         buy me.  You can't buy me.  I don't 
                         even need the parole.  This is about 
                         the truth coming out.  You're a 
                         goddamn liberal, Mr. Garrison, you 
                         don't know shit, cause you never 
                         been fucked in the ass.  Fascism is 
                         here now, Facism is...

                                     JIM
                         No one's trying to buy you, Willie.  
                         It's important to know why you're 
                         telling us this.

                                     O'KEEFE
                              (pauses)
                         You wanna know why?  'Cause that 
                         mother fucker Kennedy stole that 
                         fuckin' election, that's why!  Nixon 
                         was gonna be one of the great 
                         Presidents 'til Kennedy wrecked this 
                         fuckin' country.  Got niggers all 
                         over the fuckin' place asking for 
                         their rights, where do you think we 
                         got all this fuckin' crime now, 'cause 
                         Kennedy promised 'em too damned much.  
                         Revolution comin'.  Fascism's coming 
                         back.  I tell ya this - the day that 
                         Communist sumbitch died was a great 
                         day for this country.  I jes' hate 
                         to think they're blaming it on some 
                         silly fuckin' Oswald who didn't know 
                         shit anyway.  People should know why 
                         that sumbitch was killed.  'Cause he 
                         was a Communist.  Put me on the stand, 
                         go ahead, I'll tell the same goddamn 
                         story, I'm proud of it, don't matter 
                         fuck all to me, things don't change.

               As he talks, Jim shares a sickened look with Bill.  Whatever 
               truth he may be telling is necessarily compromised by an 
               attitude that could be destroyed in court.

               GARRISON HOME - NIGHT(1967)

               Jim, Lou, Al, Susie, and Numa sit around the table having an 
               after hours conference.  The kids run in and out of the room, 
               playing.  Susie is doing the talking, showing new paperwork 
               and photos.

                                     SUSIE
                         Your hunch was right, boss, but it's 
                         even spookier than we thought.  
                         Starting in September '63 on, two 
                         months before the assassination, 
                         there are sightings of Oswald all 
                         over Dallas, buying ammunition, 
                         getting a telescopic sight fixed, 
                         going to rifle ranges... Early 
                         November, a Dallas downtown Lincoln-
                         Mercury dealership where he tells 
                         the salesman Albert Bogard...

               FLASHBACK TO the Lincoln-Mercury dealership.  Oswald is 
               deliberately kept in half or three quarter shots - a mystery 
               figure.  He kicks the tires on a used red Mercury Comet, 
               cocky.

                                         "OSWALD"

               Let's take it out for a test drive.

               The salesman, Bogard, is hesitant.  "Oswald" doesn't look 
               like he's got a dime to his name.

                                         "OSWALD"

                                     (SENSING BOGARD'S HESITANCY)
                         Hey, I got a lotta money coming in 
                         the next two weeks.

               In the next scene we see the car, driven by "Oswald", zooming 
               up the ramp and disappearing onto the freeway.

                                     SUSIE (V.O.)
                         ...despite the fact he has no license 
                         and from what marina says, does not 
                         know how to drive, he hits the curves 
                         like Mario Andretti at the Indy 500.  
                         Bogard later told his boss he drove 
                         "like a madman."

               Resume the scene at the dealership.

                                     BOGARD
                         Three hundred bucks down, Mr. Oswald, 
                         you can drive outta here with it.

               "Oswald", unhappy, starts to leave.

                                     "OSWALD"
                         Who you kidding!  For this heap?  
                         Forget it...  No honest working man 
                         can afford a car anymore in the 
                         goddamn country!  Maybe I'll have to 
                         go back to Russia to buy a car...

                                     SUSIE (V.O.)
                         ... really dumb dialogue like he's 
                         trying to draw attention to himself.  
                         A real moron.  He walks out.  The 
                         salesman remembers him as about 5'7", 
                         but we know from his draft card he 
                         was about 5'11"...

                                     LOU
                         ...several witnesses see him on 
                         several separate days at different 
                         firing ranges.

               FLASHBACK TO a Dallas firing range in 1963.

                                     LOU
                         ...one time, November 9, he decides 
                         he needs to practice on the target 
                         of the guy next to him.  Says 
                         something really dumb to the guy, 
                         who says Oswald was a great shot.

                                     MAN
                         Hey, watcha doing, boy... that's my 
                         target.

                                     "OSWALD"
                         Hey, sorry, buddy.  I just thought 
                         it was that sonofabitch Kennedy, 
                         y'know.  I couldn't help myself.
                              (laughs)

                                     JIM
                              (in present)
                         ...about as subtle as a cockroach 
                         crawling across a white rug.

                                     SUSIE
                         I'll go you one better, Lou.  He 
                         shows up at Silvia Odio's, a Cuban 
                         lady in Dallas working in the anti-
                         Castro underground - remember that 
                         name, a solid witness.  The two Cubans 
                         introduce him as "Leon Oswald".

               FLASHBACK TO the corridor of Silvia Odio's apartment in Dallas 
               on a night in 1963.  Oswald drags behind two Cubans - one is 
               "the Bull", heavyset with a scar over his left eye, who we 
               saw at the Canal Street incident, and the other, "the Indian", 
               is quiet and cold.  The men ring the doorbell and talk to a 
               concerned Silvia as Oswald hangs back, watching, in the 
               shadows.  The men give her intimate information about her 
               father, who is imprisoned in Cuba.  The men chatter ad lib 
               in Spanish.

                                     SUSIE
                         ...the Cubans want Silvia, whose 
                         parents are political prisoners in 
                         Cuba, to help them raise money to 
                         assassinate Castro.  Something about 
                         the men bothers her.  She tells them 
                         she doesn't want anything to do with 
                         violence... about 48 hours later one 
                         of the Cubans calls her back...

               We see a shot of Silvia on the phone in her apartment intercut 
               with a shot of "the Bull" in a gas station phone booth, on a 
               night in 1963.

                                     THE BULL
                              (on the phone, in 
                              Spanish)
                         This guy Leon Oswald's great, he's 
                         kinda nut...  he told us we don't 
                         any guts, us Cubans, cause Kennedy 
                         should've been whacked after the Bay 
                         of Pigs, and some Cubans should've 
                         done that, it's easy to do, he says -
                         you know he's a Marine, an expert 
                         shooter...

               Silvia Odio is surprised to hear this information volunteered.  
               "The Bull's" eyes are on "Oswaldo", outside the booth with 
               "the Indian".  They're hanging out, talking to a mystery 
               man, an Anglo.

                                     SUSIE
                         It's like he's giving her information 
                         she doesn't even ask for.  She's 
                         scared, doesn't see them again till 
                         she sees Oswald's picture in the 
                         paper.  But the Warren Commission 
                         says she has bad eyesight because 
                         they have Oswald in Mexico at this 
                         time, trying to get back into Cuba.  
                         The Cubans think he's a double agent 
                         so they won't take him.  The CIA has 
                         a camera outside the Cuban Embassy 
                         and says this is Oswald in Mexico.
                              (hands over a picture)
                         You figure it.

               Jim looks at the famous photo... the camera closes in on a 
               heavyset man who looks nothing like Oswald.  Liz has come 
               back in and overhears.

                                     AL
                         If this is Oswald, it must be our 
                         third Oswald.

                                     JIM
                         The interesting thing is the extent 
                         to which the Warren Commission went 
                         to make him a Communist.  They got 
                         almost 150 pages and 130 exhibits of 
                         the report on this Mexico trip and 
                         the picture doesn't even match.  I'm 
                         beginning to think the point of the 
                         Mexican episode was to lay the blame 
                         at Castro's door.  If Oswald, or 
                         someone purporting to be Oswald, had 
                         gotten into Cuba, come back, then 
                         killed the President, the American 
                         public once again would've screamed 
                         for a Cuban invasion...

               Susie picks up the famous Life magazine cover shot of Oswald 
               holding a rifle in his backyard.

                                     SUSIE
                         I even have doubts about this photo, 
                         boss.  It pretty much convicted Oswald 
                         in the public mind.  Well, according 
                         to Captain Fritz, Oswald told him 
                         during his interrogation the photo 
                         was fake.

               FLASHBACK TO the Dallas Homicide Office in 1963.  Oswald is 
               being interrogated by Will Fritz, Dallas Homicide Chief, who 
               shows him the original of the photo from the Williams garage.

                                     OSWALD
                         That's not me.

                                     FRITZ
                         It came from Janet William's garage.

                                     OSWALD
                         Well, I never saw that picture.  It 
                         is my face, but my face has been 
                         super-imposed - the rest of the 
                         picture is not me at all.  I've done 
                         a lot of photographic work, and that 
                         picture was made by someone else.

                                     FRITZ
                         So who the hell are you?  Alex Hidell 
                         or Oswald?

                                     OSWALD
                         Well, you're the policeman, you work 
                         it out.

                                     SUSIE
                              (in the present)
                         Oswald, who worked for Jaggars-Chiles-
                         Stovall, did know spy photography 
                         pretty well.  I took this picture to 
                         two experts.  Look at the way the 
                         shadows on the nose fall in a straight 
                         line like it's high noon.  But the 
                         shadow here on the ground reads like 
                         late afternoon or early morning.  
                         It's not the same time.  Also look 
                         at the crop marks across the chin.  
                         It seems like his head is pasted on 
                         somebody else's body implicating him 
                         with this rifle and gun.

               We see a blowup of the photo - the shadows, the crop mark.

                                     SUSIE
                         And of the two newspapers in his 
                         hands, one is Leninist, the other 
                         Trotskyite.  Any genuine Socialist 
                         would know they hate each other's 
                         politics!

               FRENCH QUARTER - SAME NIGHT(1967)

               Broussard walks past a jazz wake leaving the cemetery - black 
               flambeurs carry torches, people sing "When the Saints Go 
               Marching in".  Bill is with a local gambler type.

                                     MOBSTER
                         Clay Bertrand?  Sure I know him.  He 
                         comes around the Quarter.

                                     BILL
                         Who is he, Joe?  I've been to every 
                         bar, no one wants to talk.

                                     MOBSTER
                         I told your uncle I never met a lawman 
                         who wasn't a punk.  You too, Bill, 
                         even if you're family.  He's a big 
                         shot businessman.  I seen him on the 
                         TV news a lot with all the other big 
                         shots.  A fag, you know.  Goes by 
                         another name down here.

                                     BILL
                              (excited)
                         What's the other name?

                                     MOBSTER
                         Shaw.  Clay Shaw.

                                     BILL
                              (stunned)
                         Clay Bertrand is Clay Shaw?  The guy 
                         who used to run the International 
                         Trade Mart?

                                     MOBSTER
                         Yeah, what's the big mystery?  
                         Everybody down here knows the guy.

                                     BILL
                         So why does he call himself Bertrand?

                                     MOBSTER
                         Who gives a shit what he calls 
                         himself?

               BACK AT GARRISON'S HOME -(1967)

                                     SUSIE
                         ...now it gets positively spooky.  
                         In January, 1961 - in New Orleans, 
                         at the Bolton Ford Dealership - when 
                         the Oswald we know is in Russia - 
                         there is a man using the name "Oswald" 
                         to buy trucks for the Friends of 
                         Democratic Cuba.  The salesman never 
                         saw him again, but guess who's on 
                         the articles of incorporation of the 
                         Friends of Democratic Cuba?  Guy 
                         Banister.
                              (reactions from the 
                              others)
                         Banister has someone using the name 
                         "Oswald" to buy the trucks.  Hoover, 
                         at the FBI, writes a memo dated June, 
                         1960, that there could be someone 
                         using Oswald's passport and identity.

                                     JIM
                         Goddamn!  They put Oswald together 
                         from Day One!  Like some dummy 
                         corporation in the Bahamas - you 
                         just move him around a board.  Sent 
                         him to Russia, in and out, no passport 
                         problems.  You got the word 
                         "microdots" in his notebook, you got 
                         the Minox camera and the electronic 
                         devices they find in his possessions, 
                         the sealed DIZ201 personnel file.  
                         For all we know, there could be a 
                         dozen Oswalds in different cities, 
                         countries - all of them leaving a 
                         trail of incriminating evidence that 
                         could easily be traced to a scapegoat 
                         after the assassination.  Does the 
                         real Oswald know he's been put 
                         together?  Who knows.  It doesn't 
                         matter, does it?  He's a low level 
                         spy, he doesn't know who he really 
                         works for...

                                     (PAUSE)
                         Let's call it a night.
                              (to Lou)
                         Anything new on Ruby?

               The staff members, anxious to go home, have all risen... and 
               now sigh.

                                     LOU
                         Mobbed up all the way.  Tight with 
                         the Dallas cops.  I'm digging, chief.  
                         I just need 10 more men and some 
                         more dollars.

                                     JIM
                         I know you do, Lou.  I'm doing three 
                         more lectures this month.  You're 
                         all doing an incredible job, Sue, 
                         Al, Numa.  But this is one where if 
                         you don't nail the other guy, you're 
                         dead.
                              (he pulls a book from 
                              the bookcase for Lou)
                         How did Jack Ruby dies so quick?  Of 
                         what?  Cancer, right?  A history of 
                         Nazi Germany, Lou.  They were studying 
                         viral cancers as a weapon in the 
                         30's.  We learned a lot more than 
                         you think from the Nazis.  Read this.  
                         Our biological warfare lab is in 
                         Fort Detrick, Maryland.  Close to 
                         where the National Cancer Institute 
                         is located.  Think about it.  Think 
                         the unthinkable - question everything.  

                                     NUMA
                         Even my own wife, chief,
                              (looking at his watch)
                         Who's wondering where I am?

                                     JIM
                              (looking at Liz)
                         Even your own wife, Numa.  Any of 
                         you want to quit, do me a favor... 
                         put us out of our misery.

               They all raise their hands as Bill walks in, excited.

                                     BILL
                         I fould Clay Bertrand.

               They all stop, look.

                                     SUSIE
                         Who?

                                     BILL
                         Grab your socks and pull... Clay 
                         Bertrand is Clay Shaw...

                                     SUSIE
                              (stunned)
                         No!... Shaw!  Director of The Trade 
                         Mart?  This is incredible.

                                     NUMA
                         Pillar of the community by day, gay 
                         bars at night.

               Liz Garrison is the most shaken, as she pours a fresh pot of 
               coffee.

                                     JIM
                         Can you get some sworn statements?

                                     BILL
                         That's gonna be tough.  Nobody's 
                         talking.

                                     JIM
                         I think we should have him in for a 
                         little talk.

                                     LIZ
                         Do you have any evidence against 
                         him, Jim?  Clay Shaw's done so much 
                         for the city with all that restoration 
                         in the Quarter.  He's well connected, 
                         all his friends, the money, people, 
                         be careful, Jim.

                                     JIM
                         It'll be off the record, honey.  
                         I'll bring him in on a Sunday.  A 
                         quiet little chat between gentlemen.

               Liz walks out of the room silent.  There is a tense pause.

               GARRISON'S LIVING ROOM - EASTER SUNDAY(1967)

               The TV is on to the latest Vietnam Reports - combat footage.

                                     NEWSMAN 10
                              (announcer)
                         In heavy fighting in Vietnam today, 
                         seven more American soldiers died 
                         and 23 were wounded.  The body count 
                         for this week now stands at 67 
                         Americans and 626 enemy soldiers 
                         killed in action.

               Liz plays with the kids looking for Easter eggs.  The dog is 
               barking - it's a scene of commotion.  Jim is getting ready 
               to go out.

                                     LIZ
                         Jim, come on, honey, get down on 
                         your hands and knees and hunt for 
                         Jasper's Easter egg.

                                     JIM
                         You know I don't like these tribal 
                         rituals, Freckle Face.  I'm 
                         interviewing Clay Shaw this morning.

                                     NEWSMAN 10
                              (as TV cuts to 
                              President Johnson)
                         President Johnson, meanwhile at an 
                         informal press conference, said he 
                         regretted that there is no end in 
                         sight to the war in Vietnam, where 
                         500,000 American troops are now 
                         fighting.  "We face more cost, more 
                         loss, and more agony."  In his 
                         proposal to raise taxes, Johnson...

                                     LIZ
                              (surprised)
                         But Jim, we're going to Antoine's 
                         with the kids - like we do every 
                         year.

                                     JIM
                         No.  I told you I was going to talk 
                         to Shaw.

                                     LIZ
                         But why in the Lord's name would you 
                         do it in the middle of Easter Sunday 
                         when you knew we were...

                                     JIM
                              (annoyed with her 
                              look)
                         Because when I scheduled it I didn't 
                         realize it was a holiday.  You were 
                         there, why didn't you say something?

                                     LIZ
                         Look at the calendar, for Christ's 
                         sake.  You said a Sunday, not Easter 
                         Sunday.

                                     JIM
                         I'm sorry, but it's important.  Clay 
                         Shaw is important.  I'm sorry.

                                     LIZ
                         You're missing most of your life, 
                         Jim, and you don't even know it.  
                         The kids are missing out too.
                              (harder)
                         It's not just you making the sacrifice 
                         here, honey.

                                     JIM
                         Look, I'll rush and be there by two, 
                         I promise.  Go ahead without me.

               As he leaves, the camera holds on Liz.

               GARRISON OFFICE - (1967)

               Clay Shaw ("Bertrand"), in an elegant white summer suit, is 
               shown in.  Indeed, there is a slight limp to his gait which 
               Jim notices right away.

               He shares a look with Bill.  Susie is also in the room.  
               Shaw's rich bassoon voice drips with dialect.  Imperiously 
               smoking a Gaulois, Shaw has about him an air of authority 
               matched only by Jim's.

                                     CLAY SHAW
                         Mr. Garrison - what can I do for you 
                         on Easter Sunday?

                                     JIM
                         I'm sorry, Mr. Shaw, to interrupt 
                         this holiday, but I feel this is a 
                         conversation we might better have 
                         out of the everyday bustle in this 
                         office...

                                     SHAW
                              (sitting)
                         I'm not sure I understand.

                                     JIM
                              (bringing some papers 
                              forward)
                         Well... in an investigation we're 
                         conducting your name has come up a 
                         number of times.

                                     SHAW
                         I wouldn't imagine where.

                                     JIM
                         We recently talked to a number of 
                         men who claim to know you.  Are you 
                         acquainted with a David Logan?

                                     SHAW
                         No.  Never heard of him.

                                     JIM
                         A Perry Russo?

                                     SHAW
                         No.

                                     JIM
                         A Willie O'Keefe?

                                     SHAW
                         No, I don't believe I know anyone by 
                         that name.

                                     JIM
                         Mr. O'Keefe told us he met you at 
                         the Masquerade Bar down in the Quarter 
                         and several evenings later you had 
                         him over for dinner at your apartment 
                         on Dauphine Street.  Do you recall 
                         that?

               FLASHBACK TO Clay's Dauphine Street residence, in the Quarter, 
               at night in 1962.  The butler opens the door and O'Keefe is 
               admitted to the townhouse.  Shaw appears behind the butler.

                                     SHAW (V.O.)
                              (in present)
                         Of course not.  I don't know this 
                         man.  Obviously then, I wouldn't 
                         have him to dinner.  Incidentally, I 
                         do not live in an apartment.  It's 
                         an 1860's house built by Gallier.  
                         I've restored it faithfully.  You 
                         know I am quite an advocate of 
                         restoration.

               At Shaw's house, dinner is served at a long table by the 
               black butler.  The table is decorated by a sumptuous setting 
               of silver and candelabra.

               Shaw uses a bell to summon the butler.

                                     JIM (V.O.)
                         Perhaps a few more details about the 
                         evening will refresh your memory.  
                         Mr. O'Keefe told us dinner was served 
                         by a uniformed waiter - a colored 
                         man.  He particularly remembers that 
                         you sat at one end and he at the 
                         other - which he found rather unusual 
                         because the table was so long.  Does 
                         that bring back memories of Willie 
                         O'Keefe?

                                     SHAW
                              (in present)
                         Not at all.  But on the other hand, 
                         I do have a lovely Chippendale dining 
                         table and I often have a friend over 
                         sitting at one end while I sit at 
                         the other.  That is precisely the 
                         point of a long dining table.  The 
                         splendor of the meal adds to the 
                         enjoyment of it.

                                     JIM
                         I would imagine a uniformed waiter 
                         helps.

                                     SHAW
                         It adds a taste of elegance for which 
                         I must confess a weakness for now 
                         and then.  I call him Smedley.  His 
                         real name is Frankie Jenkins - but I 
                         could hardly imagine anything more 
                         uncouth during dinner than my turning 
                         toward the kitchen and hollering 
                         "Frankie!" .. Where is this leading 
                         to, Mr. Garrison?

               Willie O'Keefe and Clay Shaw leave the dining table.

                                     JIM (V.O.)
                         After dinner you paid him to have 
                         sex with you.

                                     SHAW (V.O.)
                              (laughing)
                         Pffft!  Absolute nonsense.  The 
                         Quarter is filled with vivid 
                         imaginations, my dear Mr. Garrison - 
                         grimy young hoodlums who'll say and 
                         do anything.  As you well know.

                                     JIM (V.O.)
                         ...in the course of that night, Mr. 
                         O'Keefe said a man named David Ferrie 
                         stopped by the house... along with 
                         another young man...

               At Shaw's townhouse, we see Ferrie coming in, with another 
               young chicken.

                                     SHAW (V.O.)
                         Who?

                                     JIM (V.O.)
                         David Ferrie.

                                     SHAW (V.O.)
                         No.  I have never known anyone by 
                         that name.  Of course never having 
                         met Mr. O'Keefe I could hardly have 
                         met Mr. Ferrie...

                                     JIM (V.O.)
                         ...and that the four of you partied 
                         early into the morning hours...

               We see the four men in drag, smiling for the flash camera, 
               champagne bottles in hand.  Ferrie sniffs some poppers, then 
               shoves a popper in Shaw's face.

                                     FERRIE
                              (to Shaw)
                         You're mine, Mary.  Go get the fucking 
                         tools out, bitch.  Now!  I want some 
                         ass.

               Ferrie forces more poppers on Shaw.  The camera movies to 
               Shaw's bedroom, where Ferrie scatters a drawer full of leather 
               